bitcoin/lessons/ch0-01-introduction.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Introduction
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> “But I don’t want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.
> "Oh, you can’t help that," said the Cat: "we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad."
> "How do you know I’m mad?" said Alice.
> "You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn’t have come here.”
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

The following lessons are, obviously, about Bitcoin. However, while some of the
inner workings of Bitcoin are explained, what follows is not an explanation of
how Bitcoin works or what it is. It is a place to explore some of the things
Bitcoin touches: philosophical questions, economic realities, and technological
innovations.

There are probably better points of entry if you have never heard about Bitcoin
before. Great books have been written, videos have been made, courses have been
created. However, there is no "right way" to learn about Bitcoin. So if you are
new and ended up here, that's fine! I hope some of these lessons will be useful
to you.

The 21 lessons are structured in bundles of seven, resulting in three chapters.
Each chapter is looking at Bitcoin through a different lens, extracting what
lessons can be learned by looking at this strange network from a different
angle.

[Chapter 1][chapter1] explores the philosophical teachings of Bitcoin. The
interplay of immutability and change, the concept of true scarcity, Bitcoin's
immaculate conception, the problem of identity, the contradiction of replication
and locality, the power of free speech, and the limits of knowledge.

[Chapter 2][chapter2] explores the economic teachings of Bitcoin. Lessons about
financial ignorance, inflation, value, money and the history of money,
fractional reserve banking, and how Bitcoin is re-introducing sound money in a
sly, roundabout way.

[Chapter 3][chapter3] explores some of the lessons learned by examining the
technology of Bitcoin.  Why there is strength in numbers, reflections on trust,
why telling time takes work, how moving slowly and not breaking things is a
feature and not a bug, what Bitcoin's creation can tell us about privacy, why
cypherpunks write code (and not laws), and what metaphors might be useful to
explore Bitcoin's future.

In October 2010, Arjun Balaji asked the innocuous question, [*What have you
learned from Bitcoin?*][this question] After trying to answer this question in a
short tweet, and failing miserably, I realized that the things I've learned are
far too numerous to answer quickly, if at all. I also realized that any set of
answers to this question will be different for everyone --- a reflection of the
very personal journey through the wonderful world of Bitcoin. Hence, the
subtitle is *What I've Learned From Falling Down The Bitcoin Rabbit Hole*, with
which I want to acknowledge the inherent personal bias of answering a question
like this.

Attempting to answer this question fully is a fool's errand, thus my answers
will always be incomplete.

> "After this, there is no turning back. You take the blue pill --- the
> story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
> believe. You take the red pill --- you stay in Wonderland, and I show
> you how deep the rabbit hole goes."
> <cite>[Morpheus][Morpheus]</cite>

{% include image.html otherPost="2018-12-21-philosophical-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="bitcoin-orange-pill.jpg" %}

[Morpheus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_pill_and_blue_pill#The_Matrix_(1999)
[this question]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440

<!-- Internal -->
[chapter1]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch1-00-philosophy' | absolute_url }}
[chapter2]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economics' | absolute_url }}
[chapter3]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch3-00-technology' | absolute_url }}

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

[21 Lessons] Add introduction to Chapter 1; update preface and intro (#34)
* Reword intro

* Shorter preface

* Better wording

* Update ch0-00-preface.md

* Update ch0-01-introduction.md

* Add Chapter 1 intro

* Sentence moved to chap1 intro

* Simpler phrasing

bitcoin/lessons/ch0-01-introduction.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Introduction
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> “But I don’t want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.
> "Oh, you can’t help that," said the Cat: "we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad."
> "How do you know I’m mad?" said Alice.
> "You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn’t have come here.”
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

In October 2010, Arjun Balaji asked the innocuous question, [*What have you
learned from Bitcoin?*][this question] After trying to answer this question in a
short tweet, and failing miserably, I realized that the things I've learned are
far too numerous to answer quickly, if at all.

The things I've learned are, obviously, about Bitcoin - or at least related to
it. However, while some of the inner workings of Bitcoin are explained, the
following lessons are not an explanation of how Bitcoin works or what it is.
They might help to explore some of the things Bitcoin touches: philosophical
questions, economic realities, and technological innovations.

The 21 lessons are structured in bundles of seven, resulting in three chapters.
Each chapter is looking at Bitcoin through a different lens, extracting what
lessons can be learned by looking at this strange network from a different
angle.

[Chapter 1][chapter1] explores the philosophical teachings of Bitcoin. The
interplay of immutability and change, the concept of true scarcity, Bitcoin's
immaculate conception, the problem of identity, the contradiction of replication
and locality, the power of free speech, and the limits of knowledge.

[Chapter 2][chapter2] explores the economic teachings of Bitcoin. Lessons about
financial ignorance, inflation, value, money and the history of money,
fractional reserve banking, and how Bitcoin is re-introducing sound money in a
sly, roundabout way.

[Chapter 3][chapter3] explores some of the lessons learned by examining the
technology of Bitcoin.  Why there is strength in numbers, reflections on trust,
why telling time takes work, how moving slowly and not breaking things is a
feature and not a bug, what Bitcoin's creation can tell us about privacy, why
cypherpunks write code (and not laws), and what metaphors might be useful to
explore Bitcoin's future.

Each lesson contains several quotes and links throughout the text. If I have
explored an idea in more detail, you can find links to my related works in the
"Through the Looking-Glass" section. If you like to go deeper, links to the most
relevant material are listed in the "Down the Rabbit Hole" section. Both can be
found at the end of each lesson.

Even though some prior knowledge about Bitcoin is beneficial, I hope that these
lessons can be digested by any curious reader. While some relate to each other,
each lesson should be able to stand on its own and can be read independently. I
did my best to shy away from technical jargon, even though some domain-specific
vocabulary is unavoidable.

I hope that my writing serves as inspiration for others to dig beneath the
surface and examine some of the deeper questions Bitcoin raises. My own
inspiration came from a multitude of authors and content creators to all of whom
I am eternally grateful.

Last but not least: my goal in writing this is not to convince you of anything.
My goal is to make you think, and show you that there is way more to Bitcoin
than meets the eye. I can’t even tell you what Bitcoin is or what Bitcoin will
teach you. You will have to find that out for yourself.

> "After this, there is no turning back. You take the blue pill --- the
> story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
> believe. You take the red pill --- you stay in Wonderland, and I show
> you how deep the rabbit hole goes."
> <cite>[Morpheus][Morpheus]</cite>

{% include image.html otherPost="2018-12-21-philosophical-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="bitcoin-orange-pill.jpg" %}

[Morpheus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_pill_and_blue_pill#The_Matrix_(1999)
[this question]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440

<!-- Internal -->
[chapter1]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch1-00-philosophy' | absolute_url }}
[chapter2]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economics' | absolute_url }}
[chapter3]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch3-00-technology' | absolute_url }}

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
