bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Preface
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---


> “Little Alice fell
>
> d
>
> o
>
> w
>
> n
>
> the hOle,
>
> bumped her head
>
> and bruised her soul”
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole is a strange experience. Like many others,
I feel like I have learned more in the last couple of years studying Bitcoin
than I have during two decades of formal education.

The following 21 lessons are a distillation of what I've learned. Bitcoin is an
inexhaustible teacher, which is why I do not claim that they are
all-encompassing or complete. There are many more lessons to be learned, and
every person will learn something different from entering the world of Bitcoin.

Like Bitcoin, what follows should not be seen as a static thing. I plan to work
on these pages periodically, releasing updated versions in the future. Version
one was an article series titled ["What I've Learned From Bitcoin."][I] Version
two is what you are reading right now: the original 21 lessons in a (hopefully)
more digestible format. Unlike Bitcoin, future versions of this project do not
have to be backward compatible. Some lessons might be extended, others might be
reworked or replaced. I hope that version three will be something you can hold
in your hands, but I don't want to promise anything just yet.

Although my writing is intended to inform and educate, I hope that it also
serves as inspiration for others to dig beneath the surface and examine some of
the deeper questions Bitcoin raises. My own inspiration came from a multitude of
authors and content creators to all of whom I am eternally grateful.

I hope that you will find these lessons useful and that the process of learning
them by reading won't be as arduous and painful as learning them firsthand.  

[Gigi][dergigi]

<!-- Internal -->
[I]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-12-21-philosophical-teachings-of-bitcoin %}

<!-- Twitter -->
[dergigi]: https://twitter.com/dergigi

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

[21 Lessons] Remove renaissance art from chapters [WIP] (#31)
* Move chapters to trash

* Remove chapters from ToC

* Revert "Remove chapters from ToC"

This reverts commit 5af943bd9db533e3ba5126cacbe19f1bf139ca41.

* Revert "Move chapters to trash"

This reverts commit b70b539752a4052770890d7dd2324c07e16f673d.

* Remove renaissance images from chapters

* Add alice quote to economics

* Add alice quote to philosophy

* Add alice quote to chapter 3

* Move last two intro paragraphs to preface

* Move philosophy intro to introduction

* Chapter-specific lesson list

* Add lesson list to Chapter 1

* Fix lesson-specific lesson list

* Add lesson list to chapter 2

* Remove outdated intro from chapter 3

* Move lesson list in chapter 2 down

* Fix bug in chapter-specific lesson list

* Remove link to lesson 14

* Hide "Table of Contents" if ToC is next or prev

* Reword short technology intro

* Add TODOs

bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Preface
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---


> “Little Alice fell
>
> d
>
> o
>
> w
>
> n
>
> the hOle,
>
> bumped her head
>
> and bruised her soul”
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole is a strange experience. Like many others,
I feel like I have learned more in the last couple of years studying Bitcoin
than I have during two decades of formal education.

The following 21 lessons are a distillation of what I've learned. Bitcoin is an
inexhaustible teacher, which is why I do not claim that they are
all-encompassing or complete. There are many more lessons to be learned, and
every person will learn something different from entering the world of Bitcoin.

Like Bitcoin, what follows should not be seen as a static thing. I plan to work
on these pages periodically, releasing updated versions in the future. Version
one was an article series titled ["What I've Learned From Bitcoin."][I] Version
two is what you are reading right now: the original 21 lessons in a (hopefully)
more digestible format. Unlike Bitcoin, future versions of this project do not
have to be backward compatible. Some lessons might be extended, others might be
reworked or replaced. I hope that version three will be something you can hold
in your hands, but I don't want to promise anything just yet.

Even though some prior knowledge about Bitcoin is beneficial, I hope that these
lessons can be digested by any curious reader. Each lesson stands on its own and
can be read independently. While some domain-specific vocabulary is used, I did
my best to shy away from technical jargon and everything else that makes things
more difficult rather than easier to understand. Although my writing is intended
to inform and educate, I hope that it also serves as inspiration for others to
dig beneath the surface and examine some of the deeper questions Bitcoin raises.
My own inspiration came from a multitude of authors and content creators to all
of whom I am eternally grateful.

My goal in writing this is not to convince you of anything. My goal is to make
you think, and show you that there is way more to Bitcoin than meets the eye. I
can't even tell you what Bitcoin is or what Bitcoin will teach you. *You* will
have to find that out for yourself.

I hope that you will find these lessons useful and that the process of learning
them by reading won't be as arduous and painful as learning them firsthand.  

[Gigi][dergigi]

<!-- Internal -->
[I]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-12-21-philosophical-teachings-of-bitcoin %}

<!-- Twitter -->
[dergigi]: https://twitter.com/dergigi

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
