---
layout: lesson
title: 21 Lessons
subtitle: Foreword
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

The following lessons are extracted from three long-form articles I have written
over the course of several months. My journey down the rabbit hole started long
before I started writing about Bitcoin, and since the following lessons are a
reflection of my personal experience, I don't claim them to be absolute nor
complete. I hope, however, that they are instructive or at least interesting at
times.

Falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole is a strange experience. It is quite
fascinating where simple questions like "What is money?" can lead you. In
today's time, the question to ask is "What is Bitcoin?" -- and the places (and
conclusions) this question will lead you are strange indeed.

If you dig deep enough you will inevitably learn about a plethora of subjects.
Bitcoin touches everything from cryptography - which is based in mathematics and
physics - to economics, politics, game theory, computer science, and so much
more. You will learn about money and the history of money, micro- and
macro-economics, incentives and Schelling points, and why things have value in
the first place. The list of topics is almost endless, as is the list of
relevant literature.

What follows is an account of my own journey down the rabbit hole. A journey
which is still ongoing, and if my spidey senses are to be trusted, will continue
for quite a while.

The 21 lessons were first published as a three-part article series titled "What
Iâ€™ve Learned From Bitcoin" and are still roughly grouped into three chapters
based on the original articles: philosophy, economy, and technology.

If you find these lessons useful, or if you have other comments or suggestions
of any kind, I'd love to hear from you.
