bitcoin/lessons/ch1-02-the-scarcity-of-scarcity.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 2
subtitle: The scarcity of scarcity
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "That's quite enough — I hope I sha'n't grow any more"
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

In general, the advance of technology seems to make things more
abundant. More and more people are able to enjoy what previously have
been luxurious goods. Soon, we will all live like kings. Most of us
already do. As Peter Diamandis wrote in [Abundance]: "Technology is a
resource-liberating mechanism. It can make the once scarce the now
abundant."

Bitcoin, an advanced technology in itself, breaks this trend and creates
a new commodity which is truly scarce. Some even argue that it is one of
the scarcest things in the universe. The supply can't be inflated, no
matter how much effort one chooses to expend towards creating more.

> "Only two things are genuinely scarce: time and bitcoin."
> <cite>[Saifedean Ammous]</cite>

Paradoxically, it does so by a mechanism of copying. Transactions are
broadcast, blocks are propagated, the distributed ledger is --- well,
you guessed it --- distributed. All of these are just fancy words for
copying. Heck, Bitcoin even copies itself onto as many computers as it
can, by incentivizing individual people to run full nodes and mine new
blocks.

All of this duplication wonderfully works together in a concerted effort
to produce scarcity.

In a time of abundance, Bitcoin taught me what real scarcity is.

[Abundance]: https://www.diamandis.com/abundance
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://www.bayernlb.de/internet/media/de/ir/downloads_1/bayernlb_research/sonderpublikationen_1/bitcoin_munich_may_28.pdf

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add links to dive deeper to Chapter 1 & 2 (#32)
* Lesson 1: Add looking-glass and rabbit hole

* Cosmetic changes

* Remove link from author

* Add rabbit hole links to lesson 2

* Add links to Lesson 3

* Add links to Lesson 4

* Add links to Lesson 5

* Add links to Lesson 6

* Cleanup

* Add links to Lesson 8

* Add links to Lesson 9

* Add links to lesson 10

* Add links to Lesson 11

* Add links to Lesson 12

* Add missing link to Lesson 12

* Add links to lesson 13

* Add links to lesson 14

* Wikis at the bottom

bitcoin/lessons/ch1-02-the-scarcity-of-scarcity.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 2
subtitle: The scarcity of scarcity
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "That's quite enough — I hope I sha'n't grow any more"
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

In general, the advance of technology seems to make things more
abundant. More and more people are able to enjoy what previously have
been luxurious goods. Soon, we will all live like kings. Most of us
already do. As Peter Diamandis wrote in [Abundance]: "Technology is a
resource-liberating mechanism. It can make the once scarce the now
abundant."

Bitcoin, an advanced technology in itself, breaks this trend and creates
a new commodity which is truly scarce. Some even argue that it is one of
the scarcest things in the universe. The supply can't be inflated, no
matter how much effort one chooses to expend towards creating more.

> "Only two things are genuinely scarce: time and bitcoin."
> <cite>[Saifedean Ammous][bitcoin-standard-presentation]</cite>

Paradoxically, it does so by a mechanism of copying. Transactions are
broadcast, blocks are propagated, the distributed ledger is --- well,
you guessed it --- distributed. All of these are just fancy words for
copying. Heck, Bitcoin even copies itself onto as many computers as it
can, by incentivizing individual people to run full nodes and mine new
blocks.

All of this duplication wonderfully works together in a concerted effort
to produce scarcity.

In a time of abundance, Bitcoin taught me what real scarcity is.

---

#### Down the Rabbit Hole

- [Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think][Abundance] by Peter Diamandis
- [Presentation on The Bitcoin Standard][bitcoin-standard-presentation] by Saifedean Ammous

<!-- Down the Rabbit Hole -->
[Abundance]: https://www.diamandis.com/abundance
[bitcoin-standard-presentation]: https://www.bayernlb.de/internet/media/de/ir/downloads_1/bayernlb_research/sonderpublikationen_1/bitcoin_munich_may_28.pdf

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
