bitcoin/lessons/ch1-00-philosophy.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter I
subtitle: Philosophy
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with
> one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Looking at Bitcoin superficially, one might conclude that it is slow, wasteful,
unnecessarily redundant, and overly paranoid. Looking at Bitcoin inquisitively,
one might find out that things are not always as they seem.

Bitcoin has a way of taking your assumptions and turning them on their heads.
After a while, just when you were about to get comfortable again, Bitcoin will
smash through a wall and shatter your assumptions again.

The following lessons are about some of the conceptual and philosophical
assumptions which Bitcoin touches: identity, locality, scarcity, immutability,
code, speech, and more.

{% include lesson-list.html chapter="1"%}

I hope that you will find the world of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and
entertaining as I did and still do. In any case, hop on and enjoy the ride.
Let's follow the white rabbit and see how deep this rabbit hole goes.

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

[21 Lessons] Update introduction to Chapter 1 (#36)
* Remove blind monks from chapter 2 intro

* Add links to Lesson 7

* Better wording (chap3 intro)

* Swap lessons 3 and 5

* Updated chapter 1 intro

* Reword; update monk image caption

* Fix title of switched lessons

* ...first four lessons

bitcoin/lessons/ch1-00-philosophy.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter I
subtitle: Philosophy
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with
> one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Looking at Bitcoin superficially, one might conclude that it is slow, wasteful,
unnecessarily redundant, and overly paranoid. Looking at Bitcoin inquisitively,
one might find out that things are not as they seem at first glance.

Bitcoin has a way of taking your assumptions and turning them on their heads.
After a while, just when you were about to get comfortable again, Bitcoin will
smash through the wall like a bull in a china shop and shatter your assumptions
once more.

{% include image.html otherPost="2019-01-11-economic-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="blind-monks.jpg" caption="Blind monks examining the Bitcoin bull" %}

Bitcoin is a child of many disciplines. Like blind monks examining an elephant,
everyone who approaches this novel technology does so from a different angle.
And everyone will come to different conclusions about the nature of the beast.

The following lessons are about some of my assumptions which Bitcoin shattered,
and the conclusions I arrived at. Philosophical questions of immutability,
scarcity, locality, and identity are explored in the first four lessons.

{% include lesson-list.html chapter="1"%}

Lesson 5 explores how Bitcoin's origin story is not only fascinating but
absolutely essential for a leaderless system. The last two lessons of this
chapter explore the power of free speech and the limits of our individual
knowledge, reflected by the surprising depth of the Bitcoin rabbit hole.

I hope that you will find the world of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and
entertaining as I did and still do. I invite you to follow the white rabbit and
explore the depths of this rabbit hole. Now hold on to your pocket watch, pop
down, and enjoy the fall.

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
