bitcoin/lessons/ch1-04-the-problem-of-identity.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 4
subtitle: The problem of identity
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "Who are you?" said the caterpillar.
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Nic Carter, in an homage to Thomas Nagel's treatment of the same
question [in regards to a bat], wrote an excellent piece which discusses
the following question: [What is it like to be a bitcoin?] He
brilliantly shows that open, public blockchains in general, and Bitcoin
in particular, suffer from the same conundrum as the [Ship of
Theseus]: which Bitcoin is the real Bitcoin?

> "Consider just how little persistence Bitcoin's components have. The
> entire codebase has been reworked, altered, and expanded such that it
> barely resembles its original version. [...] The registry of who
> owns what, the ledger itself, is virtually the only persistent trait
> of the network [...]
>
> To be considered truly leaderless, you must surrender the easy
> solution of having an entity that can designate one chain as the
> legitimate one."
> <cite>[Nic Carter][What is it like to be a bitcoin?]</cite>

It seems like the advancement of technology keeps forcing us to take
these philosophical questions seriously. Sooner or later, self-driving
cars will be faced with real-world versions of the [trolley problem],
forcing them to make ethical decisions about whose lives do matter and
whose do not.

Cryptocurrencies, especially since the first contentious hard-fork,
force us to think about and agree upon the metaphysics of identity.
Interestingly, the two biggest examples we have so far have lead to two
different answers. On August 1, 2017, Bitcoin split into two camps. The
market decided that the unaltered chain is the original Bitcoin. One
year earlier, on October 25, 2016, Ethereum split into two camps. The
market decided that the *altered* chain is the original Ethereum.

If properly decentralized, the questions posed by the *Ship of Theseus*
will have to be answered in perpetuity for as long as these networks of
value-transfer exist.

Bitcoin taught me that decentralization contradicts identity.

[in regards to a bat]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Is_it_Like_to_Be_a_Bat%3F
[What is it like to be a bitcoin?]: https://medium.com/s/story/what-is-it-like-to-be-a-bitcoin-56109f3e6753
[Ship of Theseus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus
[trolley problem]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add links to dive deeper to Chapter 1 & 2 (#32)
* Lesson 1: Add looking-glass and rabbit hole

* Cosmetic changes

* Remove link from author

* Add rabbit hole links to lesson 2

* Add links to Lesson 3

* Add links to Lesson 4

* Add links to Lesson 5

* Add links to Lesson 6

* Cleanup

* Add links to Lesson 8

* Add links to Lesson 9

* Add links to lesson 10

* Add links to Lesson 11

* Add links to Lesson 12

* Add missing link to Lesson 12

* Add links to lesson 13

* Add links to lesson 14

* Wikis at the bottom

bitcoin/lessons/ch1-04-the-problem-of-identity.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 4
subtitle: The problem of identity
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "Who are you?" said the caterpillar.
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Nic Carter, in an homage to Thomas Nagel's treatment of the same
question [in regards to a bat], wrote an excellent piece which discusses
the following question: [What is it like to be a bitcoin?] He
brilliantly shows that open, public blockchains in general, and Bitcoin
in particular, suffer from the same conundrum as the [Ship of
Theseus]: which Bitcoin is the real Bitcoin?

> "Consider just how little persistence Bitcoin's components have. The
> entire codebase has been reworked, altered, and expanded such that it
> barely resembles its original version. [...] The registry of who
> owns what, the ledger itself, is virtually the only persistent trait
> of the network [...]
>
> To be considered truly leaderless, you must surrender the easy
> solution of having an entity that can designate one chain as the
> legitimate one."
> <cite>[Nic Carter][What is it like to be a bitcoin?]</cite>

It seems like the advancement of technology keeps forcing us to take
these philosophical questions seriously. Sooner or later, self-driving
cars will be faced with real-world versions of the [trolley problem],
forcing them to make ethical decisions about whose lives do matter and
whose do not.

Cryptocurrencies, especially since the first contentious hard-fork,
force us to think about and agree upon the metaphysics of identity.
Interestingly, the two biggest examples we have so far have lead to two
different answers. On August 1, 2017, Bitcoin split into two camps. The
market decided that the unaltered chain is the original Bitcoin. One
year earlier, on October 25, 2016, Ethereum split into two camps. The
market decided that the *altered* chain is the original Ethereum.

If properly decentralized, the questions posed by the *Ship of Theseus*
will have to be answered in perpetuity for as long as these networks of
value-transfer exist.

Bitcoin taught me that decentralization contradicts identity.

---

#### Down the Rabbit Hole

- [What Is It Like to be a Bat?][in regards to a bat] by Thomas Nagel
- [What is it like to be a bitcoin?] by Nic Carter
- [Ship of Theseus], [trolley problem] on Wikipedia

[in regards to a bat]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Is_it_Like_to_Be_a_Bat%3F
[What is it like to be a bitcoin?]: https://medium.com/s/story/what-is-it-like-to-be-a-bitcoin-56109f3e6753
[Ship of Theseus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus
[trolley problem]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
