bitcoin/lessons/ch1-06-the-power-of-free-speech.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 6
subtitle: The power of free speech
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "I beg your pardon?" said the mouse, frowning, but very politely, "did you
> speak?"
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Bitcoin is an idea. An idea which, in its current form, is the
manifestation of a machinery purely powered by text. Every aspect of
Bitcoin is text: The whitepaper is text. The software which is run by
its nodes is text. The ledger is text. Transactions are text. Public and
private keys are text. Every aspect of Bitcoin is text, and thus
equivalent to speech.

> "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,
> or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of
> speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
> assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
> <cite>[First Amendment to the United States Constitution][1st Amendment]</cite>

Although the final battle of the [Crypto Wars] has not been fought yet,
it will be very difficult to criminalize an idea, let alone an idea
which is based on the exchange of text messages. Every time a government
tries to outlaw text or speech, we slip down a path of absurdity which
inevitably leads to abominations like [illegal numbers] and [illegal
primes].

As long as there is a part of the world where speech is free as in
*freedom*, Bitcoin is unstoppable.

> "There is no point in any Bitcoin transaction that Bitcoin ceases to
> be *text.* It is *all* *text*, all the time. [...]
>
> Bitcoin is **text.** Bitcoin is **speech.** It cannot be regulated in
> a free country like the USA with guaranteed inalienable rights and a
> First Amendment that explicitly excludes the act of publishing from
> government oversight."
> <cite>[Beautyon]</cite>

Bitcoin taught me that in a free society, free speech and free software
are unstoppable.

[1st Amendment]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution
[Crypto Wars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypto_Wars
[illegal numbers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_number
[illegal primes]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_prime
[Beautyon]: https://hackernoon.com/why-america-cant-regulate-bitcoin-8c77cee8d794

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add links to dive deeper to Chapter 1 & 2 (#32)
* Lesson 1: Add looking-glass and rabbit hole

* Cosmetic changes

* Remove link from author

* Add rabbit hole links to lesson 2

* Add links to Lesson 3

* Add links to Lesson 4

* Add links to Lesson 5

* Add links to Lesson 6

* Cleanup

* Add links to Lesson 8

* Add links to Lesson 9

* Add links to lesson 10

* Add links to Lesson 11

* Add links to Lesson 12

* Add missing link to Lesson 12

* Add links to lesson 13

* Add links to lesson 14

* Wikis at the bottom

bitcoin/lessons/ch1-06-the-power-of-free-speech.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 6
subtitle: The power of free speech
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "I beg your pardon?" said the mouse, frowning, but very politely, "did you
> speak?"
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Bitcoin is an idea. An idea which, in its current form, is the
manifestation of a machinery purely powered by text. Every aspect of
Bitcoin is text: The whitepaper is text. The software which is run by
its nodes is text. The ledger is text. Transactions are text. Public and
private keys are text. Every aspect of Bitcoin is text, and thus
equivalent to speech.

> "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,
> or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of
> speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
> assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
> <cite>[First Amendment to the United States Constitution][1st Amendment]</cite>

Although the final battle of the [Crypto Wars] has not been fought yet,
it will be very difficult to criminalize an idea, let alone an idea
which is based on the exchange of text messages. Every time a government
tries to outlaw text or speech, we slip down a path of absurdity which
inevitably leads to abominations like [illegal numbers] and [illegal
primes].

As long as there is a part of the world where speech is free as in
*freedom*, Bitcoin is unstoppable.

> "There is no point in any Bitcoin transaction that Bitcoin ceases to
> be *text.* It is *all* *text*, all the time. [...]
>
> Bitcoin is **text.** Bitcoin is **speech.** It cannot be regulated in
> a free country like the USA with guaranteed inalienable rights and a
> First Amendment that explicitly excludes the act of publishing from
> government oversight."
> <cite>[Beautyon]</cite>

Bitcoin taught me that in a free society, free speech and free software
are unstoppable.

---

#### Through the Looking-Glass

- [The Magic Dust of Cryptography: How digital information is changing our society][a magic spell]

#### Down the Rabbit Hole

- [Why America can't regulate Bitcoin][Beautyon] by Beautyon
- [First Amendment to the United States Constitution][1st Amendment], [Crypto Wars], [illegal numbers], [illegal primes] on Wikipedia

<!-- Through the Looking-Glass -->
[a magic spell]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-08-17-the-magic-dust-of-cryptography %}  

<!-- Down the Rabbit Hole -->
[1st Amendment]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution
[Crypto Wars]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypto_Wars
[illegal numbers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_number
[illegal primes]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegal_prime
[Beautyon]: https://hackernoon.com/why-america-cant-regulate-bitcoin-8c77cee8d794

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
