bitcoin/lessons/ch1-03-an-immaculate-conception.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 3
subtitle: An immaculate conception
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "Their heads are gone," the soldiers shouted in reply
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Everyone loves a good origin story. The origin story of Bitcoin is a
fascinating one, and the details of it are more important than one might
think at first. Who is Satoshi Nakamoto? Was he one person or a group of
people? Was he a she? Time-traveling alien, or advanced AI? Outlandish
theories aside, we will probably never know. And this is important.

Satoshi chose to be anonymous. He planted the seed of Bitcoin. He stuck
around for long enough to make sure the network won't die in its
infancy. And then he vanished.

What might look like a weird anonymity stunt is actually crucial for a
truly decentralized system. No centralized control. No centralized
authority. No inventor. No-one to prosecute, torture, blackmail, or
extort. An immaculate conception of technology.

> "One of the greatest things that Satoshi did was disappear."
> <cite>[Jimmy Song]</cite>

Since the birth of Bitcoin, thousands of other cryptocurrencies were
created. None of these clones share its origin story. If you want to
supersede Bitcoin, you will have to transcend its origin story. In a war
of ideas, narratives dictate survival.

> "Gold was first fashioned into jewelry and used for barter over 7,000
> years ago. Gold's captivating gleam led to it being considered a gift
> from the gods."
> <cite>[Gold: The Extraordinary Metal]</cite>

Like gold in ancient times, Bitcoin might be considered a gift from the
gods. Unlike gold, Bitcoins origins are all too human. And this time, we
know who the gods of development and maintenance are: people all over
the world, anonymous or not.

Bitcoin taught me that narratives are important.

[Jimmy Song]: https://medium.com/@jimmysong/why-bitcoin-is-different-e17b813fd947
[Gold: The Extraordinary Metal]: https://www.muenzeoesterreich.at/eng/discover/for-investors/gold-the-extraordinary-metal

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add links to dive deeper to Chapter 1 & 2 (#32)
* Lesson 1: Add looking-glass and rabbit hole

* Cosmetic changes

* Remove link from author

* Add rabbit hole links to lesson 2

* Add links to Lesson 3

* Add links to Lesson 4

* Add links to Lesson 5

* Add links to Lesson 6

* Cleanup

* Add links to Lesson 8

* Add links to Lesson 9

* Add links to lesson 10

* Add links to Lesson 11

* Add links to Lesson 12

* Add missing link to Lesson 12

* Add links to lesson 13

* Add links to lesson 14

* Wikis at the bottom

bitcoin/lessons/ch1-03-an-immaculate-conception.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Lesson 3
subtitle: An immaculate conception
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> "Their heads are gone," the soldiers shouted in reply
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Everyone loves a good origin story. The origin story of Bitcoin is a
fascinating one, and the details of it are more important than one might
think at first. Who is Satoshi Nakamoto? Was he one person or a group of
people? Was he a she? Time-traveling alien, or advanced AI? Outlandish
theories aside, we will probably never know. And this is important.

Satoshi chose to be anonymous. He planted the seed of Bitcoin. He stuck
around for long enough to make sure the network won't die in its
infancy. And then he vanished.

What might look like a weird anonymity stunt is actually crucial for a
truly decentralized system. No centralized control. No centralized
authority. No inventor. No-one to prosecute, torture, blackmail, or
extort. An immaculate conception of technology.

> "One of the greatest things that Satoshi did was disappear."
> <cite>[Jimmy Song]</cite>

Since the birth of Bitcoin, thousands of other cryptocurrencies were
created. None of these clones share its origin story. If you want to
supersede Bitcoin, you will have to transcend its origin story. In a war
of ideas, narratives dictate survival.

> "Gold was first fashioned into jewelry and used for barter over 7,000
> years ago. Gold's captivating gleam led to it being considered a gift
> from the gods."
> <cite>[Gold: The Extraordinary Metal]</cite>

Like gold in ancient times, Bitcoin might be considered a gift from the
gods. Unlike gold, Bitcoins origins are all too human. And this time, we
know who the gods of development and maintenance are: people all over
the world, anonymous or not.

Bitcoin taught me that narratives are important.

---

#### Down the Rabbit Hole

- [Why Bitcoin is different][Jimmy Song] by Jimmy Song
- [Gold: The Extraordinary Metal] by the Austrian Mint

<!-- Down the Rabbit Hole -->
[Jimmy Song]: https://medium.com/@jimmysong/why-bitcoin-is-different-e17b813fd947
[Gold: The Extraordinary Metal]: https://www.muenzeoesterreich.at/eng/discover/for-investors/gold-the-extraordinary-metal

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
