bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economics.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter II
subtitle: Economics
image: /assets/images/btc04-the-garden-of-bitcoin.jpg
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---



Money doesn’t grow on trees. To believe that it does is foolish, and our
parents make sure that we know about that by repeating this saying like a
mantra. We are encouraged to use money wisely, to not spend it frivolously,
and to save it in good times to help us through the bad. Money, after all,
does not grow on trees.

Bitcoin taught me more about money than I ever thought I would need to know.
Through it, I was forced to explore the history of money, banking, various
schools of economic thought, and many other things. The quest to understand
Bitcoin lead me down a plethora of paths, some of which I try to explore in
this series.

In the first seven lessons some of the philosophical questions Bitcoin touches
on were discussed. The next seven lessons will take a closer look at money and
economics. Again, I will only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is not
only ambitious, but also broad and deep in scope, making it impossible to cover
all relevant topics in a single lesson, essay, article, or book. I am starting
to doubt if it is even possible at all.

Bitcoin is a child of many disciplines. Being a new form of money, learning
about economics is paramount in understanding it. Dealing with the nature of
human action and the interactions of economic agents, economics is probably
one of the largest and fuzziest pieces of the Bitcoin puzzle.

{% include image.html otherPost="2019-01-11-economic-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="blind-monks.jpg" caption="Blind monks examining Bitcoin" %}

Again, these lessons are an exploration of the various things I have learned
from Bitcoin. They are a personal reflection of my journey down the rabbit hole.
Having no background in economics, I am definitely out of my comfort zone and
especially aware that any understanding I might have is incomplete. Like blind
monks examining an elephant, everyone who approaches this novel technology does
so from a different angle and will come to different conclusions. Blindfolded as
I am, I will try to outline what I have learned, even at the risk of making a
fool out of myself. After all, I am still trying to answer [the question]:
*“What have you learned from Bitcoin?”*

After seven lessons examined through the lens of philosophy, let’s use the
lens of economics to look at seven more. I hope that you will find the world
of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and entertaining as I did and still do.
In any case, hop on and enjoy the ride. Economy class is all I can offer this
time. Final destination: [sound money][lesson14].

[the question]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440
[lesson14]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch2-14-sound-money' | absolute_url }}

Commit message:

[21 Lessons] Remove renaissance art from chapters [WIP] (#31)
* Move chapters to trash

* Remove chapters from ToC

* Revert "Remove chapters from ToC"

This reverts commit 5af943bd9db533e3ba5126cacbe19f1bf139ca41.

* Revert "Move chapters to trash"

This reverts commit b70b539752a4052770890d7dd2324c07e16f673d.

* Remove renaissance images from chapters

* Add alice quote to economics

* Add alice quote to philosophy

* Add alice quote to chapter 3

* Move last two intro paragraphs to preface

* Move philosophy intro to introduction

* Chapter-specific lesson list

* Add lesson list to Chapter 1

* Fix lesson-specific lesson list

* Add lesson list to chapter 2

* Remove outdated intro from chapter 3

* Move lesson list in chapter 2 down

* Fix bug in chapter-specific lesson list

* Remove link to lesson 14

* Hide "Table of Contents" if ToC is next or prev

* Reword short technology intro

* Add TODOs

bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economics.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter II
subtitle: Economics
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

> A large rose tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses on it were
> white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red. This
> Alice thought a very curious thing
> <cite>[Lewis Carroll][carroll], [Alice in Wonderland][alice]</cite>

Money doesn’t grow on trees. To believe that it does is foolish, and our
parents make sure that we know about that by repeating this saying like a
mantra. We are encouraged to use money wisely, to not spend it frivolously,
and to save it in good times to help us through the bad. Money, after all,
does not grow on trees.

Bitcoin taught me more about money than I ever thought I would need to know.
Through it, I was forced to explore the history of money, banking, various
schools of economic thought, and many other things. The quest to understand
Bitcoin lead me down a plethora of paths, some of which I try to explore in
this series.

In the first seven lessons some of the philosophical questions Bitcoin touches
on were discussed. The next seven lessons will take a closer look at money and
economics.

{% include lesson-list.html chapter="2"%}

Again, I will only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is not only
ambitious, but also broad and deep in scope, making it impossible to cover all
relevant topics in a single lesson, essay, article, or book. I am starting to
doubt if it is even possible at all.

Bitcoin is a child of many disciplines. Being a new form of money, learning
about economics is paramount in understanding it. Dealing with the nature of
human action and the interactions of economic agents, economics is probably one
of the largest and fuzziest pieces of the Bitcoin puzzle.

{% include image.html otherPost="2019-01-11-economic-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="blind-monks.jpg" caption="Blind monks examining Bitcoin" %}

Again, these lessons are an exploration of the various things I have learned
from Bitcoin. They are a personal reflection of my journey down the rabbit hole.
Having no background in economics, I am definitely out of my comfort zone and
especially aware that any understanding I might have is incomplete. Like blind
monks examining an elephant, everyone who approaches this novel technology does
so from a different angle and will come to different conclusions. Blindfolded as
I am, I will try to outline what I have learned, even at the risk of making a
fool out of myself. After all, I am still trying to answer the question:
[*“What have you learned from Bitcoin?”*][the question]

After seven lessons examined through the lens of philosophy, let’s use the
lens of economics to look at seven more. I hope that you will find the world
of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and entertaining as I did and still do.
In any case, hop on and enjoy the ride. Economy class is all I can offer this
time. Final destination: **sound money**.

[the question]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
