bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economy.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter II
subtitle: Economics
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---



Money doesn’t grow on trees. To believe that it does is foolish, and our
parents make sure that we know about that by repeating this saying like a
mantra. We are encouraged to use money wisely, to not spend it frivolously,
and to save it in good times to help us through the bad. Money, after all,
does not grow on trees.

Bitcoin taught me more about money than I ever thought I would need to know.
Through it, I was forced to explore the history of money, banking, various
schools of economic thought, and many other things. The quest to understand
Bitcoin lead me down a plethora of paths, some of which I try to explore in
this series.

In Part I of this series, some of the philosophical questions Bitcoin touches
on were discussed. Part II will take a closer look at money and economics.
Again, I will only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is not only
ambitious, but also broad and deep in scope, making it impossible to cover
all relevant topics in a single essay, article, or book. I am starting to
doubt if it is even possible at all.

Bitcoin is a child of many disciplines. Being a new form of money, learning
about economics is paramount in understanding it. Dealing with the nature of
human action and the interactions of economic agents, economics is probably
one of the largest and fuzziest pieces of the Bitcoin puzzle.

{% include image.html otherPost="2019-01-11-economic-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="blind-monks.jpg" caption="Blind monks examining Bitcoin" %}

Like the first part, this essay is an exploration of the various things I have
learned from Bitcoin. And just like the first part, it is a personal reflection
of my journey down the rabbit hole. Having no background in economics, I am
definitely out of my comfort zone and aware that any understanding I might
have is incomplete. Like blind monks examining an elephant, everyone who
approaches this novel technology does so from a different angle and will come
to different conclusions. Blindfolded as I am, I will try to outline what I
have learned, even at the risk of making a fool out of myself. After all, I am
still trying to answer [the question]:

“What have you learned from Bitcoin?”

After seven lessons examined through the lens of philosophy, let’s use the
lens of economics to look at seven more. I hope that you will find the world
of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and entertaining as I did and still do.
In any case, hop on and enjoy the ride. Economy class is all I can offer this
time. Final destination: sound money.

Commit message:

Add cover images to chapters

bitcoin/lessons/ch2-00-economy.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter II
subtitle: Economics
image: /assets/images/btc04-the-garden-of-bitcoin.jpg
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---



Money doesn’t grow on trees. To believe that it does is foolish, and our
parents make sure that we know about that by repeating this saying like a
mantra. We are encouraged to use money wisely, to not spend it frivolously,
and to save it in good times to help us through the bad. Money, after all,
does not grow on trees.

Bitcoin taught me more about money than I ever thought I would need to know.
Through it, I was forced to explore the history of money, banking, various
schools of economic thought, and many other things. The quest to understand
Bitcoin lead me down a plethora of paths, some of which I try to explore in
this series.

In Part I of this series, some of the philosophical questions Bitcoin touches
on were discussed. Part II will take a closer look at money and economics.
Again, I will only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is not only
ambitious, but also broad and deep in scope, making it impossible to cover
all relevant topics in a single essay, article, or book. I am starting to
doubt if it is even possible at all.

Bitcoin is a child of many disciplines. Being a new form of money, learning
about economics is paramount in understanding it. Dealing with the nature of
human action and the interactions of economic agents, economics is probably
one of the largest and fuzziest pieces of the Bitcoin puzzle.

{% include image.html otherPost="2019-01-11-economic-teachings-of-bitcoin" name="blind-monks.jpg" caption="Blind monks examining Bitcoin" %}

Like the first part, this essay is an exploration of the various things I have
learned from Bitcoin. And just like the first part, it is a personal reflection
of my journey down the rabbit hole. Having no background in economics, I am
definitely out of my comfort zone and aware that any understanding I might
have is incomplete. Like blind monks examining an elephant, everyone who
approaches this novel technology does so from a different angle and will come
to different conclusions. Blindfolded as I am, I will try to outline what I
have learned, even at the risk of making a fool out of myself. After all, I am
still trying to answer [the question]:

“What have you learned from Bitcoin?”

After seven lessons examined through the lens of philosophy, let’s use the
lens of economics to look at seven more. I hope that you will find the world
of Bitcoin as educational, fascinating and entertaining as I did and still do.
In any case, hop on and enjoy the ride. Economy class is all I can offer this
time. Final destination: sound money.
