bitcoin/lessons/ch3-00-technology.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter III
subtitle: Technology
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---



What is Bitcoin? The many answers to this question are as interesting as
they are varied. Bitcoin is both a social and a monetary phenomenon, but
it is also a technological one. The intersection of many disciplines is
what makes Bitcoin endlessly fascinating. Like many others, I began to
stumble down this strange rabbit hole a while ago. Even though this
article is the last of this series, I am still stumbling down with no
end in sight, and I invite you to stumble along with me.

This is the third chapter of a personal journey. Again, I am indebted to
[Arjun Balaji] who asked the following on Twitter: "What have you
learned from Bitcoin?" It is this question which has led me to write
this series to outline some of the things I've learned.

1. [Philosophical Teachings of Bitcoin][I]
2. [Economic Teachings of Bitcoin][II]
3. **[Technological Teachings of Bitcoin][III]**

Part one explored what I've learned from Bitcoin when seen through a
philosophical lens: the interplay of immutability and change, copying
and scarcity, Bitcoin's origin story and identity, locality in a world
of replication, money as free speech, and the limits of knowledge.

Part two discussed some of the economic teachings of Bitcoin: the
concept of value, (sound) money and its history, inflation, and some
aspects of "modern" banking like fractional reserve banking.

Part three will explore seven things I have learned from examining
Bitcoin through the lens of technology. As in the previous parts, I will
only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is an expanding universe,
evolving and improving every day. Whole books can be and have been
written on small, specific parts of this cosmos. And just like in our
own universe, the expansion seems to be accelerating.

Commit message:

Add cover images to chapters

bitcoin/lessons/ch3-00-technology.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Chapter III
subtitle: Technology
image: /assets/images/btc05-the-anatomy-of-bitcoin.jpg
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---



What is Bitcoin? The many answers to this question are as interesting as
they are varied. Bitcoin is both a social and a monetary phenomenon, but
it is also a technological one. The intersection of many disciplines is
what makes Bitcoin endlessly fascinating. Like many others, I began to
stumble down this strange rabbit hole a while ago. Even though this
article is the last of this series, I am still stumbling down with no
end in sight, and I invite you to stumble along with me.

This is the third chapter of a personal journey. Again, I am indebted to
[Arjun Balaji] who asked the following on Twitter: "What have you
learned from Bitcoin?" It is this question which has led me to write
this series to outline some of the things I've learned.

1. [Philosophical Teachings of Bitcoin][I]
2. [Economic Teachings of Bitcoin][II]
3. **[Technological Teachings of Bitcoin][III]**

Part one explored what I've learned from Bitcoin when seen through a
philosophical lens: the interplay of immutability and change, copying
and scarcity, Bitcoin's origin story and identity, locality in a world
of replication, money as free speech, and the limits of knowledge.

Part two discussed some of the economic teachings of Bitcoin: the
concept of value, (sound) money and its history, inflation, and some
aspects of "modern" banking like fractional reserve banking.

Part three will explore seven things I have learned from examining
Bitcoin through the lens of technology. As in the previous parts, I will
only be able to scratch the surface. Bitcoin is an expanding universe,
evolving and improving every day. Whole books can be and have been
written on small, specific parts of this cosmos. And just like in our
own universe, the expansion seems to be accelerating.
