bitcoin/lessons/ch4-03-translations.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Translations
subtitle: بيتكوين
quote: "These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation of \"hjckrrh!\""
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

### Translations

- 🇪🇸 [Chapter I][es-philosophy] is available in Spanish thanks to [@CamiloJdL][Camilo].
- 🇹🇷 [Chapter I][tr-philosophy], [Chapter II][tr-economics], and [Chapter III][tr-technology] is available in Turkish thanks to [@deniz_zgur][deniz]. Note that the order of the chapters is different in the Turkish translation.
- 🇨🇳 [Chapter I][zh-all], [Chapter II][zh-all], and [Chapter III][zh-all] is available in Chinese thanks to [@andywan][andywan]. Some additional images and figures were added.

[es-philosophy]: https://medium.com/@dergigi/ense%C3%B1anzas-filos%C3%B3ficas-de-bitcoin-8ae1357357f9
[tr-philosophy]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/bitcoinin-felsefi-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-e7df2338a2fc
[tr-economics]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/bitcoinin-ekonomi-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-a3e87dcff525
[tr-technology]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/blockchainin-teknolojik-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-34ae5a6949a7
[zh-all]: https://www.weibo.com/ttarticle/p/show?id=2309404363977307068572
[andywan]: https://twitter.com/andywan
[Camilo]: https://twitter.com/CamiloJdL
[deniz]: https://twitter.com/deniz_zgur

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add audio version to translations

bitcoin/lessons/ch4-03-translations.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Translations
subtitle: بيتكوين
quote: "These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation of \"hjckrrh!\""
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

### Translations

- 🇪🇸 [Chapter I][es-philosophy] is available in Spanish thanks to [@CamiloJdL][Camilo].
- 🇹🇷 [Chapter I][tr-philosophy], [Chapter II][tr-economics], and [Chapter III][tr-technology] is available in Turkish thanks to [@deniz_zgur][deniz]. Note that the order of the chapters is different in the Turkish translation.
- 🇨🇳 [Chapter I][zh-all], [Chapter II][zh-all], and [Chapter III][zh-all] is available in Chinese thanks to [@andywan][andywan]. Some additional images and figures were added.

### Audio version

- 🎧 [Chapter I][ch1-audio], [Chapter II][ch2-audio], and [Chapter
  III][ch3-audio] are available as an audio version thanks to [Guy Swann] from [The
  Cryptoconomy][cryptoconomy] podcast.

{% include bibliography.md %}

[ch1-audio]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoQuikRead_256---21-Lessons-of-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole---Chapter-1-e47u83
[ch2-audio]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoQuikRead_257---21-Lessons-of-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole---Chapter-2-e489f9
[ch3-audio]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoQuikRead_258---21-Lessons-of-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole---Chapter-3-e48kao

[es-philosophy]: https://medium.com/@dergigi/ense%C3%B1anzas-filos%C3%B3ficas-de-bitcoin-8ae1357357f9
[tr-philosophy]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/bitcoinin-felsefi-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-e7df2338a2fc
[tr-economics]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/bitcoinin-ekonomi-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-a3e87dcff525
[tr-technology]: https://medium.com/@denizozzgur/blockchainin-teknolojik-%C3%B6%C4%9Fretileri-34ae5a6949a7
[zh-all]: https://www.weibo.com/ttarticle/p/show?id=2309404363977307068572
[andywan]: https://twitter.com/andywan
[Camilo]: https://twitter.com/CamiloJdL
[deniz]: https://twitter.com/deniz_zgur
[Guy Swann]: https://twitter.com/TheCryptoconomy

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
