bitcoin/lessons/ch4-01-acknowledgments.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Acknowledgments
quote: "\"Thank you,\" said Alice"
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

Thanks to the countless authors and content producers who
influenced my thinking on Bitcoin and the topics it touches. There
are too many to list them all, but I'll do my best to name a few.

<!-- Part I -->
-   Thanks to [Arjun Balaji] for [the tweet] which motivated me to
    write this.
-   Thanks to [Marty Bent] for providing endless food for thought
    and entertainment. If you are not subscribed to [Marty's Ƀent] and
    [Tales From The Crypt], you are missing out. Cheers [Matt] and Marty
    for guiding us through the rabbit hole.
-   Thanks to [Michael Goldstein] and [Pierre Rochard] for curating and
    providing the greatest Bitcoin literature via the [Nakamoto
    Institute]. And thank you for creating the [Noded Podcast]
    which influenced my philosophical views on Bitcoin substantially.
-   Thanks to [Peter McCormack] for his [honest tweets] and the [What
    Bitcoin Did] podcast, which keeps providing great insights from many
    areas of the space.
<!-- Part II -->
-   Thanks to [Andreas M. Antonopoulos] for all the [educational
    material] he has put out over the years.
-   Thanks to [Saifedean Ammous] for his convictions, savage tweets, and
    writing The Bitcoin Standard
-   Thanks to [Francis Pouliot] for sharing his excitement about
    finding out about the [timechain].
-   Thanks to [Jannik], [Brandon], [Matt], [Camilo], [Daniel], [Michael], and
    [Raphael] for providing feedback to early drafts of some lessons.
    Special thanks to [Jannik] who proofread multiple drafts multiple times.
<!-- Part III -->
-   Thanks to [Dhruv Bansal] and [Matt Odell] for taking the time to
    discuss some of these ideas with me.
-   Last but not least, thanks to all the bitcoin maximalists, shitcoin
    minimalists, shills, bots, and shitposters which reside in the
    beautiful garden that is Bitcoin twitter. And finally, thank *you* for
    reading this. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did enjoy writing it.
    Feel free to [reach out to me] on twitter. My DMs are open.

<!-- Twitter -->
[Arjun Balaji]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Dhruv Bansal]: https://twitter.com/dhruvbansal
[Marty Bent]: https://twitter.com/martybent
[Matt Odell]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Matt]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Michael Goldstein]: https://twitter.com/bitstein
[Pierre Rochard]: https://twitter.com/pierre_rochard
[Hugo Nguyen]: hhttps://twitter.com/hugohano
[Jannik]: https://twitter.com/jnnksbrt
[Camilo]: https://twitter.com/CamiloJdL
[deniz]: https://twitter.com/deniz_zgur
[Michael]: https://twitter.com/michael_rogger
[Daniel]: https://twitter.com/dnlggr
[Raphael]: https://twitter.com/dinemuatta
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Hasu]: https://twitter.com/hasufl
[Brandon]: https://twitter.com/bquittem
[Andreas M. Antonopoulos]: https://twitter.com/aantonop
[Francis Pouliot]: https://twitter.com/francispouliot_
[timechain]: https://twitter.com/francispouliot_/status/1106028072799744002
[Aleksandar Svetski]:https://twitter.com/AleksSvetski
[Michael Kerbleski]: https://twitter.com/kerbleski
[3Blue1Brown]: https://twitter.com/3blue1brown
[Arjun Balaji]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj
[the tweet]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Dhruv Bansal]: https://twitter.com/dhruvbansal
[Matt Odell]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Matt]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Michael Goldstein]: https://twitter.com/bitstein
[Pierre Rochard]: https://twitter.com/pierre_rochard
[Nakamoto Institute]: http://nakamotoinstitute.org
[Jannik]: https://twitter.com/jnnksbrt
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Peter McCormack]: https://twitter.com/whatbitcoindid
[honest tweets]: https://twitter.com/PeterMcCormack/status/1073196778705559553
[stacking]: https://twitter.com/hashtag/stackingsats
[reach out to me]: https://twitter.com/dergigi

<!-- Pods -->
[Tales From The Crypt]: https://talesfromthecrypt.libsyn.com/
[Noded Podcast]: https://noded.org/
[Marty's Ƀent]: http://eepurl.com/cROArD
[What Bitcoin Did]: https://www.whatbitcoindid.com/podcast

<!-- Other -->
[educational material]: https://antonopoulos.com/

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

[21 Lessons] Add audio version (#66)
* Add open-embed

* Add player include

* Use player include if page.audio is set

* Add audio for preface

* Full-width audio player

* Add audio files

* Add full 21 lessons audio

* Add "audio" twitter cover

* Update acknowledgments

* Add audio version to translations

* Add headphones to cover image

bitcoin/lessons/ch4-01-acknowledgments.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Acknowledgments
quote: "\"Thank you,\" said Alice"
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

Thanks to the countless authors and content producers who
influenced my thinking on Bitcoin and the topics it touches. There
are too many to list them all, but I'll do my best to name a few.

<!-- Part I -->
-   Thanks to [Arjun Balaji] for [the tweet] which motivated me to
    write this.
-   Thanks to [Marty Bent] for providing endless food for thought
    and entertainment. If you are not subscribed to [Marty's Ƀent] and
    [Tales From The Crypt], you are missing out. Cheers [Matt] and Marty
    for guiding us through the rabbit hole.
-   Thanks to [Michael Goldstein] and [Pierre Rochard] for curating and
    providing the greatest Bitcoin literature via the [Nakamoto
    Institute]. And thank you for creating the [Noded Podcast]
    which influenced my philosophical views on Bitcoin substantially.
-   Thanks to [Peter McCormack] for his [honest tweets] and the [What
    Bitcoin Did] podcast, which keeps providing great insights from many
    areas of the space.
<!-- Part II -->
-   Thanks to [Andreas M. Antonopoulos] for all the [educational
    material] he has put out over the years.
-   Thanks to [Saifedean Ammous] for his convictions, savage tweets, and
    writing The Bitcoin Standard
-   Thanks to [Francis Pouliot] for sharing his excitement about
    finding out about the [timechain].
-   Thanks to [Jannik], [Brandon], [Matt], [Camilo], [Daniel], [Michael], and
    [Raphael] for providing feedback to early drafts of some lessons.
    Special thanks to [Jannik] who proofread multiple drafts multiple times.
<!-- Part III -->
-   Thanks to [Dhruv Bansal] and [Matt Odell] for taking the time to
    discuss some of these ideas with me.
-   Thanks to [Guy Swann] for producing an audio version
    of 21lessons.com.
-   Last but not least, thanks to all the bitcoin maximalists, shitcoin
    minimalists, shills, bots, and shitposters which reside in the
    beautiful garden that is Bitcoin twitter. And finally, thank *you* for
    reading this. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did enjoy writing it.
    Feel free to [reach out to me] on twitter. My DMs are open.

<!-- Twitter -->
[Guy Swann]: https://twitter.com/TheCryptoconomy
[Arjun Balaji]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Dhruv Bansal]: https://twitter.com/dhruvbansal
[Marty Bent]: https://twitter.com/martybent
[Matt Odell]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Matt]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Michael Goldstein]: https://twitter.com/bitstein
[Pierre Rochard]: https://twitter.com/pierre_rochard
[Hugo Nguyen]: hhttps://twitter.com/hugohano
[Jannik]: https://twitter.com/jnnksbrt
[Camilo]: https://twitter.com/CamiloJdL
[deniz]: https://twitter.com/deniz_zgur
[Michael]: https://twitter.com/michael_rogger
[Daniel]: https://twitter.com/dnlggr
[Raphael]: https://twitter.com/dinemuatta
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Hasu]: https://twitter.com/hasufl
[Brandon]: https://twitter.com/bquittem
[Andreas M. Antonopoulos]: https://twitter.com/aantonop
[Francis Pouliot]: https://twitter.com/francispouliot_
[timechain]: https://twitter.com/francispouliot_/status/1106028072799744002
[Aleksandar Svetski]:https://twitter.com/AleksSvetski
[Michael Kerbleski]: https://twitter.com/kerbleski
[3Blue1Brown]: https://twitter.com/3blue1brown
[Arjun Balaji]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj
[the tweet]: https://twitter.com/arjunblj/status/1050073234719293440
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Dhruv Bansal]: https://twitter.com/dhruvbansal
[Matt Odell]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Matt]: https://twitter.com/matt_odell
[Michael Goldstein]: https://twitter.com/bitstein
[Pierre Rochard]: https://twitter.com/pierre_rochard
[Nakamoto Institute]: http://nakamotoinstitute.org
[Jannik]: https://twitter.com/jnnksbrt
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Peter McCormack]: https://twitter.com/whatbitcoindid
[honest tweets]: https://twitter.com/PeterMcCormack/status/1073196778705559553
[stacking]: https://twitter.com/hashtag/stackingsats
[reach out to me]: https://twitter.com/dergigi

<!-- Pods -->
[Tales From The Crypt]: https://talesfromthecrypt.libsyn.com/
[Noded Podcast]: https://noded.org/
[Marty's Ƀent]: http://eepurl.com/cROArD
[What Bitcoin Did]: https://www.whatbitcoindid.com/podcast

<!-- Other -->
[educational material]: https://antonopoulos.com/

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
