bitcoin/lessons/ch4-02-further-reading.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
title: Bibliography
subtitle: Further reading
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

There exists an almost endless list of books and essays on the topics
discussed above and economic thought in general. The books and articles
listed below are but a small selection which were particularly influential
in my thinking. I am grateful for all the people who shared their
insights, past and present.

## Papers
- [Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System][whitepaper] by Satoshi Nakamoto
- [Reflections on Trusting Trust] by Ken Thompson

## Bitcoin Books
- [The Bitcoin Standard: The Decentralized Alternative to Central Banking][bitcoin-standard]
    by Saifedean Ammous
- [Mastering Bitcoin] by Andreas Antonopoulos
- [The Internet of Money] by Andreas Antonopoulos
- [Inventing Bitcoin] by Yan Pritzker

## Economy Books
- [Human Action] by Ludwig von Mises
- [Economics in One Lesson] by Henry Hazlitt
- [The Ethics of Money Production] by Jörg Guido Hülsmann
- [The Denationalization of Money] by Friedrich Hayek
- [The Machinery of Freedom] by David D. Friedman
- [The Case Against The Fed] by Murray N. Rothbard
- [The Creature From Jekyll Island] by G. Edward Griffin
- [End the Fed] by Ron Paul

## Other Books
- [Cypherpunks] by Julian Assange with Jacob Appelbaum
- [Applied Cryptography] by Bruce Schneier
- [Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think][book2] by Peter Diamandis
- [The Mind’s I][book3] by Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter

## Articles and essays
- [Shelling Out: The Origins of Money] by Nick Szabo
- [Money, blockchains, and social scalability][article1] by Nick Szabo
- [Bitcoin’s Existential Crisis, originally published][article2] as "What is it like to be a Bitcoin?" by Nic Carter
- [The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition] by [Saifedean Ammous]
- [The Bullish Case For Bitcoin] by [Vijay Boyapati]
- [Bitcoin’s distribution was fair] by [Dan Held]
- [Unpacking Bitcoin’s Social Contract: A framework for skeptics][article3] by [Hasu]
- [Why America Can’t Regulate Bitcoin][article4] by Beautyon
- [Why Bitcoin is different][article5] by Jimmy Song
- [The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work] by [Hugo Nguyen]
- [Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock] by Gregory Trubetskoy
- [Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract] by [Hasu]
- [Why Bitcoin Matters] by [Aleksandar Svetski]
- [Guess My Bitcoin Private Key] by [Michael Kerbleski]

## Podcast episodes
- [Preserving the Freedom to Innovate with Public Blockchains][podcast1] \\
  Peter Van Valkenburg on the What Bitcoin Did podcast hosted by Peter McCormack

<!-- Papers -->
[whitepaper]: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[Reflections on Trusting Trust]: https://www.archive.ece.cmu.edu/~ganger/712.fall02/papers/p761-thompson.pdf

<!-- Books -->
[book1]: http://amzn.to/2L95bJW
[book2]: https://www.diamandis.com/abundance
[book3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mind%27s_I
[bitcoin-standard]: http://amzn.to/2L95bJW
[Mastering Bitcoin]: https://bitcoinbook.info/
[The Internet of Money]: https://theinternetofmoney.info/
[Inventing Bitcoin]: http://inventingbitcoin.com/
[Applied Cryptography]: https://www.schneier.com/books/applied_cryptography/
[Cypherpunks]: https://www.orbooks.com/catalog/cypherpunks/
[Economics in One Lesson]: https://mises.org/library/economics-one-lesson
[Human Action]: https://mises.org/library/human-action-0
[The Ethics of Money Production]: https://mises.org/library/ethics-money-production
[The Denationalization of Money]: https://nakamotoinstitute.org/literature/denationalisation/
[The Machinery of Freedom]: http://daviddfriedman.com/The_Machinery_of_Freedom_.pdf
[The Case Against The Fed]: https://mises.org/sites/default/files/The%20Case%20Against%20the%20Fed_2.pdf
[End the Fed]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End_the_Fed
[The Creature From Jekyll Island]: https://archive.org/details/pdfy--Pori1NL6fKm2SnY

<!-- Articles -->
[article1]: http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-social-scalability.html
[article2]: https://medium.com/s/story/what-is-it-like-to-be-a-bitcoin-56109f3e6753
[article3]: https://medium.com/s/story/bitcoins-social-contract-1f8b05ee24a9
[article4]: https://hackernoon.com/why-america-cant-regulate-bitcoin-8c77cee8d794
[article5]: https://medium.com/@jimmysong/why-bitcoin-is-different-e17b813fd947
[The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work]: https://bitcointechtalk.com/the-anatomy-of-proof-of-work-98c85b6f6667
[Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock]: https://grisha.org/blog/2018/01/23/explaining-proof-of-work/
[Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract]: https://medium.com/s/story/bitcoins-social-contract-1f8b05ee24a9
[Why Bitcoin Matters]: https://hackernoon.com/why-bitcoin-matters-c8bf733b9fad
[Guess My Bitcoin Private Key]: https://medium.com/@kerbleski/a-dance-with-infinity-980bd8e9a781
[Shelling Out: The Origins of Money]: http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/rob/Courses/InformationInSpeech/CDROM/Literature/LOTwinterschool2006/szabo.best.vwh.net/shell.html
[The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition]: https://thesaifhouse.wordpress.com/2016/07/09/the-bitcoin-halving-and-monetary-competition/
[The Bullish Case For Bitcoin]: https://medium.com/@vijayboyapati/the-bullish-case-for-bitcoin-6ecc8bdecc1
[Bitcoin’s distribution was fair]: https://blog.picks.co/bitcoins-distribution-was-fair-e2ef7bbbc892
[podcast1]: https://www.whatbitcoindid.com/podcast/coin-centers-peter-van-valkenburg-on-preserving-the-freedom-to-innovate-with-public-blockchains

<!-- People -->
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Hasu]: https://twitter.com/hasufl
[Hugo Nguyen]: hhttps://twitter.com/hugohano
[Aleksandar Svetski]:https://twitter.com/AleksSvetski
[Michael Kerbleski]: https://twitter.com/kerbleski

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Remove subtitle from acknowledgments and bibliogrpahy

bitcoin/lessons/ch4-02-further-reading.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
title: Bibliography
quote: "When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that sort of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!"
categories: [bitcoin, lesson]
---

There exists an almost endless list of books and essays on the topics
discussed above and economic thought in general. The books and articles
listed below are but a small selection which were particularly influential
in my thinking. I am grateful for all the people who shared their
insights, past and present.

## Papers
- [Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System][whitepaper] by Satoshi Nakamoto
- [Reflections on Trusting Trust] by Ken Thompson

## Bitcoin Books
- [The Bitcoin Standard: The Decentralized Alternative to Central Banking][bitcoin-standard]
    by Saifedean Ammous
- [Mastering Bitcoin] by Andreas Antonopoulos
- [The Internet of Money] by Andreas Antonopoulos
- [Inventing Bitcoin] by Yan Pritzker

## Economy Books
- [Human Action] by Ludwig von Mises
- [Economics in One Lesson] by Henry Hazlitt
- [The Ethics of Money Production] by Jörg Guido Hülsmann
- [The Denationalization of Money] by Friedrich Hayek
- [The Machinery of Freedom] by David D. Friedman
- [The Case Against The Fed] by Murray N. Rothbard
- [The Creature From Jekyll Island] by G. Edward Griffin
- [End the Fed] by Ron Paul

## Other Books
- [Cypherpunks] by Julian Assange with Jacob Appelbaum
- [Applied Cryptography] by Bruce Schneier
- [Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think][book2] by Peter Diamandis
- [The Mind’s I][book3] by Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter

## Articles and essays
- [Shelling Out: The Origins of Money] by Nick Szabo
- [Money, blockchains, and social scalability][article1] by Nick Szabo
- [Bitcoin’s Existential Crisis, originally published][article2] as "What is it like to be a Bitcoin?" by Nic Carter
- [The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition] by [Saifedean Ammous]
- [The Bullish Case For Bitcoin] by [Vijay Boyapati]
- [Bitcoin’s distribution was fair] by [Dan Held]
- [Unpacking Bitcoin’s Social Contract: A framework for skeptics][article3] by [Hasu]
- [Why America Can’t Regulate Bitcoin][article4] by Beautyon
- [Why Bitcoin is different][article5] by Jimmy Song
- [The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work] by [Hugo Nguyen]
- [Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock] by Gregory Trubetskoy
- [Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract] by [Hasu]
- [Why Bitcoin Matters] by [Aleksandar Svetski]
- [Guess My Bitcoin Private Key] by [Michael Kerbleski]

## Podcast episodes
- [Preserving the Freedom to Innovate with Public Blockchains][podcast1] \\
  Peter Van Valkenburg on the What Bitcoin Did podcast hosted by Peter McCormack

<!-- Papers -->
[whitepaper]: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[Reflections on Trusting Trust]: https://www.archive.ece.cmu.edu/~ganger/712.fall02/papers/p761-thompson.pdf

<!-- Books -->
[book1]: http://amzn.to/2L95bJW
[book2]: https://www.diamandis.com/abundance
[book3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mind%27s_I
[bitcoin-standard]: http://amzn.to/2L95bJW
[Mastering Bitcoin]: https://bitcoinbook.info/
[The Internet of Money]: https://theinternetofmoney.info/
[Inventing Bitcoin]: http://inventingbitcoin.com/
[Applied Cryptography]: https://www.schneier.com/books/applied_cryptography/
[Cypherpunks]: https://www.orbooks.com/catalog/cypherpunks/
[Economics in One Lesson]: https://mises.org/library/economics-one-lesson
[Human Action]: https://mises.org/library/human-action-0
[The Ethics of Money Production]: https://mises.org/library/ethics-money-production
[The Denationalization of Money]: https://nakamotoinstitute.org/literature/denationalisation/
[The Machinery of Freedom]: http://daviddfriedman.com/The_Machinery_of_Freedom_.pdf
[The Case Against The Fed]: https://mises.org/sites/default/files/The%20Case%20Against%20the%20Fed_2.pdf
[End the Fed]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End_the_Fed
[The Creature From Jekyll Island]: https://archive.org/details/pdfy--Pori1NL6fKm2SnY

<!-- Articles -->
[article1]: http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-social-scalability.html
[article2]: https://medium.com/s/story/what-is-it-like-to-be-a-bitcoin-56109f3e6753
[article3]: https://medium.com/s/story/bitcoins-social-contract-1f8b05ee24a9
[article4]: https://hackernoon.com/why-america-cant-regulate-bitcoin-8c77cee8d794
[article5]: https://medium.com/@jimmysong/why-bitcoin-is-different-e17b813fd947
[The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work]: https://bitcointechtalk.com/the-anatomy-of-proof-of-work-98c85b6f6667
[Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock]: https://grisha.org/blog/2018/01/23/explaining-proof-of-work/
[Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract]: https://medium.com/s/story/bitcoins-social-contract-1f8b05ee24a9
[Why Bitcoin Matters]: https://hackernoon.com/why-bitcoin-matters-c8bf733b9fad
[Guess My Bitcoin Private Key]: https://medium.com/@kerbleski/a-dance-with-infinity-980bd8e9a781
[Shelling Out: The Origins of Money]: http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/rob/Courses/InformationInSpeech/CDROM/Literature/LOTwinterschool2006/szabo.best.vwh.net/shell.html
[The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition]: https://thesaifhouse.wordpress.com/2016/07/09/the-bitcoin-halving-and-monetary-competition/
[The Bullish Case For Bitcoin]: https://medium.com/@vijayboyapati/the-bullish-case-for-bitcoin-6ecc8bdecc1
[Bitcoin’s distribution was fair]: https://blog.picks.co/bitcoins-distribution-was-fair-e2ef7bbbc892
[podcast1]: https://www.whatbitcoindid.com/podcast/coin-centers-peter-van-valkenburg-on-preserving-the-freedom-to-innovate-with-public-blockchains

<!-- People -->
[Saifedean Ammous]: https://twitter.com/saifedean
[Vijay Boyapati]: https://twitter.com/real_vijay
[Dan Held]: https://twitter.com/danheld
[Hasu]: https://twitter.com/hasufl
[Hugo Nguyen]: hhttps://twitter.com/hugohano
[Aleksandar Svetski]:https://twitter.com/AleksSvetski
[Michael Kerbleski]: https://twitter.com/kerbleski

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll
