bitcoin/lessons/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 21 Lessons
subtitle: What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole
subtitle_link: http://21lessons.com
category: bitcoin
description: An exploration of questions and lessons learned from falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole.
quote: "\"Oh, you foolish Alice!\" she said again, \"how can you learn lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!\""
image: /assets/images/21-lessons-twitter-cover-audio.jpg
audio: /assets/audio/21lessons/21-lessons.m4a
redirect_from: /bitcoin/lessons/21-lessons/
---

{% include player.html file=page.audio %}

---

> The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. 'Where shall I begin, please your
> Majesty?' he asked. '[Begin at the beginning][preface],' the King said
> gravely, 'and go on till you come to the end: then stop.'

[![21 Lessons - What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole](/assets/images/21-lessons-cover-rabbit-headphones.jpg)][preface]

---

{% include lesson-toc.html %}

---

<center>
  <p>Ready to enter Wonderland?<br/>
  <a href="{{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}">Follow the white rabbit →</a></p>
  <p><a href="{{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}"><img src="/assets/images/rabbit.png"/></a></p>
</center>


<!-- Internal  -->
[preface]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}

<!-- Wikipedia -->
[alice]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland
[carroll]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll

Commit message:

Add links to translations and audio versions in lessons landing page

bitcoin/lessons/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 21 Lessons
subtitle: What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole
subtitle_link: http://21lessons.com
category: bitcoin
description: An exploration of questions and lessons learned from falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole.
quote: "\"Oh, you foolish Alice!\" she said again, \"how can you learn lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!\""
image: /assets/images/21-lessons-twitter-cover-audio.jpg
audio: /assets/audio/21lessons/21-lessons.m4a
redirect_from: /bitcoin/lessons/21-lessons/
---

{% include player.html file=page.audio %}

---

> The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. 'Where shall I begin, please your
> Majesty?' he asked. '[Begin at the beginning][preface],' the King said
> gravely, 'and go on till you come to the end: then stop.'

---

Thanks to the awesome members of the Bitcoin community, 21 Lessons is available
in [several languages][translations] and as an [audio version][audio]. There are
also some [audio recordings][audio] of thoughts and discussions related to these
lessons available.

[![21 Lessons - What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole](/assets/images/21-lessons-cover-rabbit-headphones.jpg)][preface]

---

{% include lesson-toc.html %}

---

<center>
  <p>Ready to enter Wonderland?<br/>
  <a href="{{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}">Follow the white rabbit →</a></p>
  <p><a href="{{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}"><img src="/assets/images/rabbit.png"/></a></p>
</center>


<!-- Internal  -->
[preface]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch0-00-preface' | absolute_url }}
[translations]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch4-03-translations' | absolute_url }}
[audio]: {{ 'bitcoin/lessons/ch4-04-audio' | absolute_url }}
