---
layout: post
title: "Joy"
redirect_from: /joy
date: 2019-08-25
description:
image: /assets/images/joy.jpg
author: Gigi
category: photography
tags:
  - Photography
  - Travel
---

> Occasionally in life, there are those moments of unutterable fulfillment which
> cannot be completely explained by those symbols called words. Their meanings can
> only be articulated by the inaudible language of the heart.
>
> <cite>Martin Luther King, Jr.</cite>

Joy. Delight. Bliss. Glee To enjoy oneself, or what one does, or what one
experiences. Not too long ago, I thought that these moments of pure,
unadulterated joy were nothing but short bursts in-between dull and gray
drudgery; small gifts which make life bearable. Oh, what a horrible thing to
think.

I now realize that the theft of joy in my life was systemic, and I have the
suspicion that I was not the sole victim of this crime.

Joy: finding meaning in a meaningless universe, hope in a hopeless world,
delight in breathing, profundity in what seems ordinary. The world is truly
magical if one dares to look at it properly.

> Joy! Joy! I did not know that all this world is so much part of me, that we are
> all one army, that windflowers and stars struggle to right and left of me and do
> not know me; but I turn to them and hail them.
>
> <cite>Nikos Kazantzakis</cite>

For the first time since a long while, I can truly say that I enjoy what I am
doing. And what I'm doing is strange indeed. I talk with strangers for hours on
end; strangers which I've never seen and never met. I write about things which I
do not understand; things which are too complicated to be understood fully. I
build things without having an exact blueprint; some might be useful, others
won't be. It doesn't matter, I enjoy it anyway.

Martin Luther King Jr. was right. It cannot be completely explained by those
symbols called words. So I won't even try. But I guess I will keep doing what
I'm doing. Walking the path ahead, guided by joy.

> Who is the happiest of men? He who values the merits of others, And in their
> pleasure takes joy, even as though it were his own.
>
> <cite>Johann Wolfgang von Göthe</cite>
