---
layout: post
title: "Crushing"
redirect_from: /crushing
date: 2020-10-04
description:
image: /assets/images/crushing.jpg
author: Gigi
category: photography
tags:
  - Photography
---

Like crashing waves along the shore, life's challenges - big and small - don't
come isolated, and once a big one hits, you can be sure that another one -
equally big, or even bigger - will hit just moments later.

If you're not careful, the waves will crush you underneath their might,
swallowing you whole, leaving you no room to breathe. I am writing these lines
as I'm gasping for air, struggling to stay afloat in the waters of an unfamiliar
shore. It's a good kind of struggle, the one that makes you a better swimmer -
if you survive.

> Man is but a reed, the most feeble thing in nature, but he is a thinking reed.
> The entire universe need not arm itself to crush him. A vapor, a drop of water
> suffices to kill him. But, if the universe were to crush him, man would still be
> more noble than that which killed him, because he knows that he dies and the
> advantage which the universe has over him; the universe knows nothing of this.
> All our dignity consists then in thought. By it we must elevate ourselves, and
> not by space and time which we cannot fill. Let us endeavor to think well; this
> is the principle of morality.
>
> <cite>Blaise Pascal</cite>

To smash, shatter, break into fragments; force down, and bruise by heavy weight.
To overpower and subdue, to gnash teeth, crash, smash, break. All of that and
more is crushing, yet having a crush is usually the opposite. Or is it?

> I often say to my students, when they first come and they begin to feel the
> infiniteness, the joy and the deep peace, and they feel very happy, I say to
> them, Don’t just joyride. Be quiet. Be one with this. Know that this is beyond
> belief. This is direct experience. But because this is taking place in you, a
> storm is coming. And this storm is the storm of ego! The storm of ego is going
> to come to crush what you have discovered, to bring fear in you, to make you
> feel that you are making a mistake, to bring in states of confusion. And some of
> you may give in to that and run away, and feel, ‘No, I must not do this
> anymore!’ But I want to encourage you. This exercise, this ‘meditation’, you may
> call it, comes from the very core of your Self. It comes from the God-place in
> you. And this tendency to run comes from the negativity, the toxicity that we
> have picked up in life. That is going to come up as though it wants to ruin your
> Garden of Eden inside your heart. I am telling you ahead of time that all beings
> who awakened to their true nature experienced these types of resistance, this
> type of aggression from the mind.
>
> <cite>Mooji</cite>

Resistance. Ego. The opposite of joy and peace.

In the grand scheme of things, my sorrows are just a drop of water. And yet, in
my weakest moments, this drop, this vapor of an intangible substance, feels
crushing.
