---
layout: post
title: "Displays"
redirect_from: /displays
date: 2022-12-30
description: Attention is the currency. Now stare at me.
image: /assets/images/displays.jpg
author: Gigi
category: photography
tags:
  - Photography
---

Displays rule our world. They dictate our lives, replace our jobs, facilitate
our interactions, and filter our world.

One day, many years ago, I went to a shopping mall, which is something I usually
don't do. I still remember this day because it was the first time I'd seen large
touchscreen displays where McDonald's cashiers should've been. I knew that this
day would come, obviously. As a technologist, I knew about these touchscreen
terminals. Knew that they would come. Knew that they would replace the people
that would stand behind the counter to take your order. I knew all this, and
still, it took me by surprise.

Today, this is normal, of course. Like it is normal to see a group of people
sitting at a table, staring at their individual displays, trapped in their
individual bubbles.

{% include image.html name="newspapers.jpg" %}
{% include image.html name="newspapers2.jpg" %}

I'm guilty of that too, of course. I'm staring at a display as I'm writing these
words because I tell myself that it's more efficient than writing by hand would
be.

I'm not hating on efficiency. Or automation, or capitalism, for that matter. Far
from it. I'm also not hating on humanity and our urge to make things easier. 

I love humanity.  We're smart, powerful, and have awesome technological
capabilities.  In fact, I believe that we're too smart, too powerful, and too
technologically capable.

Maybe some things shouldn't be made to be easy. Maybe some things are meant to
be hard. Maybe knowing the difference between those two is wisdom. 

That's what we're lacking, isn't it. Wisdom. It was never easier to attain
knowledge. It was never easier to look up "facts." And yet, it was never harder
to attain wisdom. Or at least it isn't easier now than it used to be. 

Maybe it was always like that.  Maybe that's how it will be, always, for all
eternity.  But I can't shake the feeling that it's harder to find wisdom when
it's hidden behind displays.

{% include image.html name="eye.jpg" caption="Who is watching whom?" %}
