---
layout: post
title: "Cancer"
redirect_from: /cancer
date: 2026-06-17
description: "Fuck cancer, sideways, with a rake, forever."
image: /assets/images/rake.jpg
author: Gigi
category: photography
tags:
  - Photography
  - Writing
  - Personal
---

Cancer. Fuck cancer. Fuck cancer sideways. With a rake.

I was sitting on the same bouncy ball that I'm sitting on right now when my mum
called me, telling me that my dad killed himself. He had cancer too, by the way.
I'm not sure if I ever mentioned it. Lymphocytic leukemia. Cancer of the blood
and bone marrow. I don't think that he killed himself because of it, since he
was surprisingly stable in terms of health. Cancer didn't kill [my dad], but it
didn't help him either.

I was sitting on the same bouncy ball when my sister notified me that _she_ has
cancer. Yes, my sister has cancer too. She's a bit older than me, but not so
much that it matters. Two kids, just like me. Lost her dad shortly before; just
like me, obviously. She's bound to lose her female body parts, if she's lucky
enough to make it that far.

My cousin had cancer too. She's still alive, thank God. Her dad wasn't as lucky.
He died incredibly quickly, within weeks of the diagnosis. You guessed it:
cancer. Cancer of the brain. They found out, and at the same time realized that
there's nothing they can do. I was still young when my uncle died—maybe 10 years
old—maybe even younger than that—but even at that age I understood one thing
deeply: cancer sucks. Massively.

A couple years later my uncle's sister (my mum) got cancer, too. Breast cancer.
I was maybe 12 or so, not sure, and it doesn't matter. I was too young to spell
the word "chemotherapy" without mistakes; but old enough to understand what it
means when mum can't get up from the couch for two days, barely able to hit the
bucket when throwing up; old enough to understand that the red stuff that's
coming out isn't just vomit, but blood.

My dad wasn't home for most of it. He had to work and stuff. My sisters weren't
home for it either. One lived abroad at the time, the other had moved out
already. It was just me, trying to comfort my mother as best as I could,
bringing her glasses of water and some sort of menthol or sugar drops, which
supposedly brought a little relief, if only for a moment, overriding the
blood-and-stomach-acid flavor that was a constant companion at the time. Just
me, and my mum of course, who was throwing up the water-and-drops mixture as
soon as she was done drinking it. (And stomach fluid and blood and other
horrible things after that. For two days straight. Sometimes three.
Week after week.)

---

I was _not_ sitting on the bouncy ball when my wife called me, telling me that
_she_ has cancer. Yes, my wife too. I was at a bitcoin event, scheduled to have
a fireside chat. I decided to have the chat, not wanting to cancel things last
minute. Not the best idea, since my mind was obviously elsewhere, resulting in
me wasting everyone's time and most everyone thinking that I was on drugs. I
wasn't. I was trying to process the fact that my wife might die, and what this
cancer diagnosis might mean for us. For her, mostly. But also for me, and for
our two little kids. Would they have to witness the same things that I
witnessed? Mum dying on the couch, week after week? Blood, sugar drops, vomit?
The agony that only a staring contest with death can bring?

My wife called me 12 months ago, give or take.

> Reflecting back on the last 12 months. Wasn't the easiest year for me and my
> family, but we're stronger for it. "If you're going through hell, keep going."
> Count your blessings.

I wrote [the above] three days ago. Three days.

I wrote it because I remembered the thing I wrote at the time, when my wife was
admitted to the hospital, to start her own journey of months and months (and
months) of chemotherapy. I sat down in the corner of the cancer ward, watching
mere shells of people walk by, some of them half my age—or younger still. I sat
down and I started to write. I wrote about [adoption (and other
nonsense)][adoption], not because I had something serious to say, but because I
wanted to focus on something non-serious for a second. _"Everything is ridiculous
if one thinks of death."_

I wrote it because I was reflecting back on 12 months of hell. Explaining to a
5-year-old that mum might die? Hell. Falling asleep while the 2-year-old can't
stop crying because mummy isn't here to cuddle and read bedtime stories? Hell.
Going back-and-forth between two countries because treatment isn't available in
the place you just moved to? Hell. Providing emotional support for the in-laws
who had nervous breakdowns on the regular? Hell. Sitting in the corner of the
cancer ward, staring into the laptop, making sure that the machinery I'm
responsible for doesn't fall apart? Hell. Watching your better half deteriorate,
lose weight, turn pale, lose _any and all_ hair, even lose the will to live?
Hell. Pretending that you're fine in a conference call even though you just
cried for an hour because your wife (and your life) is literally falling apart?
Hell. Dealing with the logistics of it all? Hell.

One of the worst days for me was a regular day. Not the day of the diagnosis;
not the day she lost her hair; not the day she lost her breasts; not the days
the kids cried, or asked impossible-to-answer questions. A regular day. I got up
early, trying my best to help with the kids. I got an hour or two of work done.
I drove my wife to the hospital, or to some doctor or some other treatment
facility. I prepared lunch, made sure that the kitchen is in order, and drove to
get groceries. I later learned that I got the wrong groceries. Not only wrong,
but inadequate. My wife made a comment, and I'm sure she didn't intend it, but
it absolutely obliterated me. Devastated doesn't even begin to describe it. I failed to take care of her. It almost killed me.

That's what cancer does. It kills people. Emotionally, socially, and literally.
It kills relationships. It kills normal life. Even if you survive it, against all odds, a part of you still dies.

---

My wife is through most of it, or so it seems. Cancer is in remission. Her hair
is growing back. Her breasts will not, however. Neither will her fallopian
tubes, or any of the other reproductive body parts they had to remove. No more
kids for us, unfortunately.

---

"Reflecting back on the last 12 months."

I wrote that three days ago.

Three days.

A lot can happen in three days.

Three days ago I thought that things would return to normal, whatever that
means. I thought that I'd take my daughter on a trip this fall, to visit the
family, visit my mum—her grandma—and spend some quality time with her. Visit the
family of my dad, get some closure, process his death; or at least try to. The
fact that my dad never met his granddaughter still pains me to this day. You
always think there's more time. And all of a sudden, there's [no time left].

Three days ago I thought that I'd finally have some room to breathe.  
Two days ago I learned that my mum got [another] cancer diagnosis.  
Today I learned that she's dying.  

Right now.

As I am typing this sentence.

---

I was sitting on the same bouncy ball when my sister called me today. I
answered. Bad news. Things are way worse than we thought. Tears. A short time
later I was sitting on the floor, crying.

Déjà vu.

---

I like the bouncy ball because it reminds me to sit upright, to find the right
balance. It takes a little effort to sit on it. You can't fall asleep on it.
It's the only "chair" I have in my office, and I wouldn't have it any other way.

But it's a terrible chair to receive bad news on. Part of your world got
destroyed, and you can't even slouch on it to deal with the devastation. When
every fiber of your being is obliterated, when there's no strength left to sit
upright, when the only reasonable position is a collapsed heap of agony, when
you just learned that time is running out, that your mum is dying way sooner
than you thought she would... then the bouncy ball sucks.

Massively.

Just like cancer.

[the above]: https://ants.sh/e/nevent1qqs87szpcw69jy7aa6mpm828pn7esyt2ljse4sueadyu0ucjm6fg9vgwun9jq
[adoption]: https://ants.sh/e/nevent1qqsv49h2jdnpnz5ru6krvkzjdkqtaw4wzsqwczrmawrsrqpfqplnjws2702jr
[no time left]: https://ants.sh/e/nevent1qqs9xpdc2lm6xc6vl45np3ptvkw4mga329a7r7ap2mn48peuqajgqjg9fmapz
[another]: /forgetting
[my dad]: /suicide
