bio.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Gigi's Bio
redirect_from: /gigi
---

Gigi is the author of [21 Lessons](https://21lessons.com/), a popular book about
lessons learned from falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole.  His current
work-in-progress book, [21 Ways](https://21-ways.com/), tries to illuminate
Bitcoin from multiple angles, using metaphors from biology, physics,
engineering, and other disciplines. He is the creator and maintainer
of [bitcoin-resources.com](https://bitcoin-resources.com/), a comprehensive list
of curated books, articles, podcasts, and other resources that help to provide a
multi-faceted understanding of Bitcoin.  In 2019 he launched the German-speaking
Bitcoin podcast \"[Einundzwanzig](https://einundzwanzig.space/)\" with one of
his co-hosts which turned into a community movement that now spans [multiple
countries](https://twentyone.world/). He is passionate about privacy, human
rights, and freedom technology. As the head of strategy and operations at
[OpenSats](https://opensats.org/), he spends most of his day thinking about how
to best support the development of free and open-source software as we
transition towards an increasingly bitcoinized world.

---

See also:

- [/contact][contact]
- [/projects][projects]

[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}
[projects]: {{ '/projects' | absolute_url }}

Commit message:

feat(bio): minor updates
add nostr-resources.com

bio.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Gigi's Bio
redirect_from: /gigi
---

Gigi is the author of [21 Lessons](https://21lessons.com/), a popular book about
lessons learned from falling down the Bitcoin rabbit hole. His current
work-in-progress book, [21 Ways](https://21-ways.com/), tries to illuminate
Bitcoin from multiple angles, using metaphors from biology, physics,
engineering, and other disciplines.

He is the creator and maintainer
of [bitcoin-resources.com](https://bitcoin-resources.com/) and
[nostr-resources.com](https://nostr-resources.com), a comprehensive list of
curated books, articles, podcasts, and other resources that help to provide a
multi-faceted understanding of Bitcoin & nostr.

In 2019 he launched the German-speaking Bitcoin podcast
\"[Einundzwanzig](https://einundzwanzig.space/)\" with one of his co-hosts which
turned into a community movement that now spans [multiple
countries](https://twentyone.world/). He is passionate about privacy, human
rights, and freedom technology.  He likes to [meander](https://plebwalks.com/)
and is involved in [toomanyprojects.xyz](http://toomanyprojects.xyz/).

As the head of strategy and operations at [OpenSats](https://opensats.org/), he
spends most of his day thinking about how to best support the development of
free and open-source software as we transition towards an increasingly
bitcoinized world.

---

See also:

- [/contact][contact]
- [/projects][projects]

[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}
[projects]: {{ '/projects' | absolute_url }}
