contact.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Der Who?
---

I am currently working on [my new book][patreon], so I might be harder to reach
than usual. There is also the fact that my inboxes are overflowing ever since
the bull began his run.[*][golden-bull]

If you want to reach me, [telegram], twitter, or the mail below is probably your
best bet. I will do my best to reply in 3-5 days. If I don't please ping me
again. Note that I will probably not respond if I can't make out what you're up
to. A simple "hi" or "hey" without any context will be ignored. Also, I'm not
interested in trading or shitcoinery, so anything along these lines will be
deleted without an answer.

[telegram]: https://t.me/dergigi
[patreon]: https://www.patreon.com/dergigi
[golden-bull]: https://youtu.be/nJeddv1QbeQ

---

<div style="position: relative;">
  <img src="/assets/images/dergigi-contact.png">
  <a href="https://twitter.com/dergigi" title="twitter" style="position:
  absolute; left: 19.87%; top: 8.24%; width: 45.79%; height: 58.79%; z-index:
  2;"></a><a href="mailto:hi@dergigi.com" title="email" style="position:
  absolute; left: 9.61%; top: 8.52%; width: 9.94%; height: 58.79%; z-index:
  2;"></a><a href="mailto:hi@dergigi.com" title="email" style="position:
  absolute; left: 9.61%; top: 67.86%; width: 80.89%; height: 26.37%; z-index:
  2;"></a>
</div>

<center>
<a href="{{ 'pgp' | absolute_url }}">PGP</a>
</center>

---

## Questions

I do [Q&A sessions][patreon] from time to time. Please send any questions to the email above, 
replacing the "hi" part of the address with "question" (this is my way of making 
sure that you are not a robot).

## About Me

I’m [Gigi][true-names]. Nice to meet you.

I don't know how you ended up here. Maybe you have read some of the [things
I wrote][bitcoin]. Maybe you have seen some of my [photography] and googled the
watermark. Maybe we know each other from meatspace and you decided to check up on
me in cyberspace. It's hard to tell, really.

So, what about me? I am interested in all kinds of things, but what I'm most
passionate about is the intersection of technology and society. Which is why
the internet, and its recent brain-child [bitcoin][bitcoin], are very dear
to me.

Where things are going is always hard to tell, but I aim to be part of
the conversations and help to create a piece of the puzzle which hopefully
results in a better future. I believe that [freedom][gnu] and a move
away from centralized control are paramount for empowering individuals
and building a future worth having.

If you want to talk about these things, feel free to reach out to me. Or just [follow
along][twitter] for the ride. That's perfectly fine too.

Hope to see you around, \\
Gigi

---

[Canary ️ 🐦 🔫][canary]

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/dergigi
[bitcoin]: {{ 'bitcoin' | absolute_url }}
[canary]: {{ 'canary/' | absolute_url }}
[photography]: {{ 'blog' | absolute_url }}
[medium]: https://medium.com/@dergigi
[gnu]: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html
[true-names]: {% post_url /collections/bitcoin/2020-07-21-true-names-not-required %}

Commit message:

feat(contact): add further links

contact.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Der Who?
---

I am currently working on [my new book][patreon], so I might be harder to reach
than usual. There is also the fact that my inboxes are overflowing ever since
the bull began his run.[*][golden-bull]

If you want to reach me, [telegram], twitter, or the mail below is probably your
best bet. I will do my best to reply in 3-5 days. If I don't please ping me
again. Note that I will probably not respond if I can't make out what you're up
to. A simple "hi" or "hey" without any context will be ignored. Also, I'm not
interested in trading or shitcoinery, so anything along these lines will be
deleted without an answer.

[telegram]: https://t.me/dergigi
[patreon]: https://www.patreon.com/dergigi
[golden-bull]: https://youtu.be/nJeddv1QbeQ

---

<div style="position: relative;">
  <img src="/assets/images/dergigi-contact.png">
  <a href="https://twitter.com/dergigi" title="twitter" style="position:
  absolute; left: 19.87%; top: 8.24%; width: 45.79%; height: 58.79%; z-index:
  2;"></a><a href="mailto:hi@dergigi.com" title="email" style="position:
  absolute; left: 9.61%; top: 8.52%; width: 9.94%; height: 58.79%; z-index:
  2;"></a><a href="mailto:hi@dergigi.com" title="email" style="position:
  absolute; left: 9.61%; top: 67.86%; width: 80.89%; height: 26.37%; z-index:
  2;"></a>
</div>

<center>
<a href="{{ 'pgp' | absolute_url }}">PGP</a>
</center>

---

## Questions

I do [Q&A sessions][patreon] from time to time. Please send any questions to the email above,
replacing the "hi" part of the address with "question" (this is my way of making
sure that you are not a robot).

## About Me

I’m [Gigi][true-names]. Nice to meet you.

I don't know how you ended up here. Maybe you have read some of the [things
I wrote][bitcoin]. Maybe you have seen some of my [photography] and googled the
watermark. Maybe we know each other from meatspace and you decided to check up on
me in cyberspace. It's hard to tell, really.

So, what about me? I am interested in all kinds of things, but what I'm most
passionate about is the intersection of technology and society. Which is why
the internet, and its recent brain-child [bitcoin][bitcoin], are very dear
to me.

Where things are going is always hard to tell, but I aim to be part of
the conversations and help to create a piece of the puzzle which hopefully
results in a better future. I believe that [freedom][gnu] and a move
away from centralized control are paramount for empowering individuals
and building a future worth having.

If you want to talk about these things, feel free to reach out to me. Or just [follow
along][twitter] for the ride. That's perfectly fine too.

Hope to see you around, \\
Gigi

---

## Links

* [/blog][photography]: random thoughts and photographs
* [/twitter][twitter]: mostly shitposts
* [/patreon][patreon]: close and personal chats, early drafts of my work

---

[Canary ️ 🐦 🔫][canary]

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/dergigi
[bitcoin]: {{ 'bitcoin' | absolute_url }}
[canary]: {{ 'canary/' | absolute_url }}
[photography]: {{ 'blog' | absolute_url }}
[medium]: https://medium.com/@dergigi
[gnu]: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html
[true-names]: {% post_url /collections/bitcoin/2020-07-21-true-names-not-required %}
