
### Gaming and Virtual Currencies Today

Online games and the in-game economies they create are here to stay. For
those who grew up with computer games, spending money on in-game goods
is as normal as paying for other digital goods and services such as
songs, movies, or ebooks. People will continue to spend ridiculous
amounts of money on cosmetics and status symbols. Whether these goods
exist in "real life" or in virtual worlds does not seem to matter.
Luxurious cars, expensive watches, jewelry, designer clothes - virtual
or not, the money people spend on them is real.

As of today, the most well-known game that monetizes on the purchase of
cosmetic luxuries is probably *Fortnite*. Released in 2017, the
free-to-play game has attracted more than 100 million players and earns
hundreds of millions of dollars per month, mostly by selling in-game
items such as skins, characters, emotes, and so on. Again: these items
are pure cosmetics; they don't improve your character or gameplay in
any way, except for visuals. Some of the rarer skins sell for hundreds
and sometimes even thousands of dollars. They are virtual collectibles
for a digital generation.

The most recent incarnation of Counter-Strike, *Counter-Strike: Global
Offensive*, is another game that sells expensive cosmetics. Being one of
the most popular first-person shooters in the world, the only parts of
your character that you see on the regular are your hands and the weapon
that is held by them. Naturally, cosmetics in *CS:GO* are applied to
what you see: weapons. While most of these weapon skins are almost
worthless, some of the rare ones regularly trade hands for thousands of
dollars on secondary markets. Some skins are bound to championships and
thus have a unique character, such as the *Dragon Lore* from the Boston
2018 Major, which sold for over USD 61,000 in January 2018. Some
collectors seem to have paid even more to purchase a single skin, with
reports citing up to twice that amount (over USD 100,000). [Footnote:
https://www.ginx.tv/en/cs-go/the-most-expensive-csgo-skin-purchase-in-history
https://www.skinwallet.com/csgo/the-most-expensive-csgo-skins-ever-sold/
https://www.pcgamer.com/uk/csgo-dragon-lore-awp-skin-sells-for-more-than-61000/]

[IMAGE: Insert image of CS skin] 

All of this goes to show that if left to their own devices, players will
spawn vast economies as long as the game mechanics allow for it. One of
the best examples of a flourishing in-game economy is Eve Online, an
MMORPG space simulation. The game was home to what is probably the most
expensive battle in gaming history: the *Bloodbath of
B-R5RB,* (Footnote: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloodbath_of_B-R5RB)
named after the star system where the battle took place. Players can
visit 7,800 star systems in this virtual world to explore, mine, trade,
and---of course---combat other players. This particular battle took
place in January 2014. The tally of the losses of all involved was in
the realm of 11 trillion Interstellar Kredit (ISK) or USD 330,000 at the
time. I can only echo the words of Marcus Carter, Kelly Bergstrom, and
Darryl Woodford: *"Internet Spaceships Are Serious
Business."* (Footnote:
https://www.amazon.de/Internet-Spaceships-Are-Serious-Business/dp/0816699089/) 

No discussion about in-game money is complete without mentioning the
king of gold farming, at least in terms of real-world
repercussions: *World of Warcraft*. The virtual gold rush and the gold
farms (Footnote: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_farming) it spawned
are something to behold. While the gold was virtual, the (mostly
criminal) organizations launched to systematically harvest the in-game
currency were anything but. The idea was simple: hire a bunch of people,
pay them to play for up to 20 hours a day, and sell the gold they find
in the game to other players. For real money, of course. Some took the
execution of this idea to the extreme. "Companies" retro-fitted
warehouses to cram as many PCs and "employees" in them as possible.
The only job of these employees was to play the game and farm gold. In
even more extreme cases prison inmates were forced to farm the digital
asset all night long. As Paul Tassi wrote in Forbes in 2011: "It's
been discovered that in an unknown number of Chinese prisons across the
country, inmates have been forced not only to do physical labor, but
electronic work as well, acting as *World of Warcraft* gold farmers by
night." [Footnote:
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/may/25/china-prisoners-internet-gaming-scam]
It turns out that prison bosses made more money with forced in-game
labor than they made with good old-fashioned forced physical labor in
the real world. Prisoners were compelled to work 12-hour shifts inside
the game, earning up to USD 900 per day for the prison bosses.
The *China Farmer* phenomenon, as it became to be known in the World of
Warcraft community, was not only an ethical problem but an economic one
as well. Farming is just one method to produce more of something
cheaply, and if that something is money, the effects that come with
inflation will burden the economy; in-game or not.

While in-game economies can have repercussions in the real world, the
reverse is also true: economic events in the real world can have
rippling effects that disturb virtual worlds. One such example is the
hyperinflation in Venezuela, which lead many people to start farming
gold and other valuable in-game items to make ends meet. Venezuelans
that had a computer and internet access were driven to abandon their
real-world jobs, since farming and selling virtual goods to players
worldwide - sometimes using bitcoin as the intermediate medium of
exchange - brought in more money than they could earn regularly. As The
Economist quipped: "The law of supply and demand is ignored in
Venezuela, but not online." [Footnote:
https://www.economist.com/the-americas/2019/11/21/venezuelas-paper-currency-is-worthless-so-its-people-seek-virtual-gold]
So many Venezuelans farmed and traded virtual goods that when the power
went out during the 2019 Venezuelan blackouts, virtual worlds such
as *RuneScape* suffered their own economic crisis. Imagine a lively
marketplace, and suddenly, one day, the vast majority of traders (and
thus goods) can't show up. After all, there is no online trading when
you're forced to be offline because the power is out.

All these examples show that games are microcosms when it comes to
economies and the creation and control of money. The difference between
the Linden Dollar, World of Warcraft Gold, Fortnite V-Bucks, the Euro,
and the U.S. dollar is in scale, not in nature. While V-Bucks are
created and controlled by Epic Games (the company that created
Fortnite), the U.S. dollar is created and controlled by the Fed. One
impacts millions of people, the other billions. The mechanism that keeps
these monies in check---the rules of the game, if you will---is the same
in both cases: central decree.

### Emergent Money in a Non-Virtual World

Bitcoin is different. Bitcoin's value does not derive from a central
decree. Like gold before it, its scarcity and persistence do not derive
from *authority*, but from *reality*. Gold is scarce because physical
laws make its production extraordinarily costly. Gold doesn't go away
because it is virtually indestructible. 

Bitcoin brings digital objects into existence---sats---that are bound to
the digital world of the bitcoin network. How is this any different from
the various in-game monies that emerged before it?

The difference lies in the *issuance and control* of the monetary units,
which, when centrally controlled, are the source and root of all
monetary evil, as Hayek said so poignantly.

\> [Free trade in money] seems to me both preferable and more
practicable than the utopian scheme of introducing a new European
currency, which would ultimately only have the effect of more deeply
entrenching the source and root of all monetary evil, the government
monopoly of the issue and control of money.

\>

\>\<cite\>F. A. Hayek\</cite\> 

The problem of *issuance* relates to the monetary units themselves: who
can make more of them? The problem of *control* relates to the
environment that said monetary units inhabit: who can change the rules?

In very general terms, this problem is always the same. There
are *objects*, and there is the environment that allows these things to
exist: the respective *arena*. In the physical world, we call the
relationship between objects physical laws---because they can't be
broken---and we call the arena the universe. We also have objects and
arenas in the world of gaming: items that make players more powerful,
and the virtual worlds they inhabit. While most in-game monies, such as
the Linden Dollar, are brought about by decree, some in-game monies
emerge naturally, as evidenced by the monetary use of the Stone of
Jordan in Diablo II.

When it comes to fiat money, the arena is the nation-state. The objects
used to be physical: coins and paper notes. Today, they are mostly
virtual: zeroes and ones in a central bank server. In any case, fiat
money is untethered from economic reality. It is a made-up construct,
which is why all fiat monies go away over time. Either the money
collapses due to hyperinflation, or the arena collapses due to the end
of the nation.

[IMAGE: Insert arena/object "flow chart".]

Whether we look at computer games or fiat money, the questions we have
to ask when it comes to money are the same: Who can create more of it?
Is there a way to farm it effectively? And, most importantly: Who is in
charge of the arena?

History shows that any rules that can be broken will be broken.
Consequently, we can assert the following with confidence: If the
objects are virtual---disconnected from reality---they can be created at
a whim. If there is a mechanism to make more of a desired good---virtual
or not---some ingenious humans will find a way to do so efficiently.
[Footnote: Diamonds come to mind.] If the arena is virtual---if the
environment is disconnected from reality---the rules of the game can be
changed arbitrarily, and, even more catastrophically, the arena can
disappear.

For in-game currencies, this means that the company that is running the
game servers went bankrupt or decided to shut down for other reasons.
For fiat currencies, this means that the nation-state went bankrupt or
ceased to exist.

As a shorthand, we might call the aforementioned questions
print/farm/serve, short for: Can it be printed? Can it be farmed? Is it
served? If the answer to any of these questions is *yes*, then you are
most definitely dealing with bad money.

When looking at the trifecta of print/farm/serve through the lens of
Bitcoin, most people will know by now that only 21 million will ever
exist, i.e. that you can't print it. Fewer people will understand the
difficulty adjustment, which is the mechanism that allows Bitcoin's
monetary issuance to be fixed in time, i.e. the mechanism that makes the
efficient farming of bitcoin impossible. Only very few will understand
the last part: the fact that Bitcoin isn't served, that it arises out
of your personal view, and the overlap of this view with others. Most
skeptics still believe that Bitcoin will go away just like all the
virtual worlds that came before it.

The skeptics are right to be skeptical. Ephemerality is one trait that
all virtual worlds share, along with the virtual monies that exist in
them: they all go away, eventually. After all, they are *virtual*, not
real. They are simulations: made-up constructs, a cheap imitation of
reality.

How is Bitcoin different?

### Digital Reality

\> "Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go
away,"

\> 

\> \<cite\>Philip K. Dick\</cite\>

While the world of Bitcoin is a digital world, it is not a virtual
world. It is not a made-up world. Yes, the rules were "made up" by
Satoshi---but they are neither arbitrary nor can they be changed
arbitrarily. More importantly, the world that arises out of these rules
is *not* virtual. It is *not* a simulated world. It requires real cost,
real time, real energy---and, consequently---real sacrifice to maintain
itself. It is not a world by decree; it is a non-virtual world that
arises out of the manipulation of bits and bytes. A shared view of past
events, rooted in the physical and mathematical laws of our universe.

Bitcoin is not a simulation. Consequently, the digital scarcity of
bitcoin is not virtual. It arises out of real, *physical* limits. The
rules of Bitcoin's difficulty adjustment do not *simulate* physical
laws, they are brought into existence *because of* physical laws.

Bitcoin consists of numbers. For this reason, it might be tempting to
discuss the metaphysical question of whether numbers are real or not,
and plenty of philosophical ink was spilled in attempts to answer this
question. I will refrain from trying to answer the question of what
ultimately constitutes reality. Is it particles? Strings? Fields?
Information? Interaction? Connection? Value?

Whatever reality is, Bitcoin maps onto it.

Bitcoin does not care about the answers to these metaphysical questions.
It is a pragmatic solution that does not care whether numbers are real
or not. A practical solution that works independently of metaphysical
speculations of reality. Bitcoin's realness does not arise out of the
realness of numbers, but out of the realness of computation, which is to
say out of the realness of *energy*. There is no way to do computation
without expending energy. The physical laws of our universe forbid it.
It is this limitation that is at the root of all cryptography.

Cryptography is the exploitation of this law via the application of
mathematical extremes. At the extremes, the mathematical becomes
physical. In theory, you could guess Satoshi's private key. And yet it
is virtually impossible in practice. In theory, you could mine a hundred
valid bitcoin blocks in five seconds. Yet, again, it is virtually
impossible in practice.

Bitcoin is not a simulation because certain bits can only be brought
about by expensive physical processes. These processes can not be
simulated, because they are rooted in computation itself. There is no
shortcut to these computations, which is why the physics inherent in
computation---the very physical process of flipping bits---is undeniably
embedded in the information that is produced.

The randomness of proof-of-work is a feature, not a bug. There is no
progress towards a solution. There are no shortcuts and there can't be
any shortcuts. Randomness is what makes it fair and resistant to
cheating. Remove this randomness, and you are back at something that is
given by decree. Remove the difficulty adjustment, and you are back at
something that can be farmed.

The only way to produce a valid proof-of-work is to actually do the
work. This is what makes Bitcoin real; this is what transfers the
physical limits of our universe into the digital world of Bitcoin. This
is what makes Bitcoin more than a fancy telephone; Bitcoin doesn't only
connect people, but it uses proof-of-work to connect itself to the
physical world.

[IMAGE: Insert chain to physical world.]

Proof-of-work can't be argued with. The information that is brought
into existence via proof-of-work can only exist because certain things
happened in the real world. Certain events that are so improbable, so
incredibly unlikely, that they had to happen in *actuality*, even though
every single event was a *digital* event. 

\> Proof-of-work has the nice property that it can be relayed through
untrusted middlemen. We don't have to worry about a chain of custody of
communication. It doesn't matter who tells you a [heaviest] chain,
the proof-of-work speaks for itself.

\>

\>\<cite\>Satoshi Nakamoto\</cite\>

Bitcoin's difficulty-adjusted proof-of-work is what makes Bitcoin a
real phenomenon, something to be wrestled with. It is what makes it
non-virtual, non-imaginary. 

The numbers that make a valid block valid are too improbable to be
dreamt up by anyone. They can only exist because real people invested
real time and real energy---using real machinery---to bring them about.
The numbers might be random, but the process that brings them about is
not. The parameters might be arbitrary, but the digital universe they
create is not.

### Emergent Money in an Emergent World

One question remains: why won't Bitcoin die? Why doesn't it go away?
To answer this, we have to talk about two other aspects of the
proof-of-work coin: *validation* and *instantiation*.

If you are the inhabitant of someone else's world---if the arena is
"served"---you will always be bound to their rules. That is true in
computer games and nation-states alike. The game changes if you can
"run your own," which is what makes you independent of any masters. If
you run your own instance---if you create your own world---you won't
have to bow down to anyone else. You just have to subjugate yourself to
the laws of nature.

In Bitcoin, anyone can create both the *objects* and the *arena*. Anyone
can mine. Anyone can run a node.

A node is what builds up and verifies the digital world of Bitcoin, from
the very beginning, including all rules and all past states. The world
of Bitcoin arises out of the overlap of all these individual worlds. It
is not a shared world, it is a world of consensus that arises out
of *agreement*. Agreement about what happened in the past; agreement via
independent repetition of the same experiment and arriving at the same
conclusion.

A "miner" is what extends the digital world of Bitcoin. Miners are in
the business of block production, which is to say in the business of
proposing a new block of past events to the network. If the events are
in accordance with the rules, nodes will accept them. If they are not,
nodes will reject them. Miners extend the arena, and in doing so, are
rewarded with sats---the most precious objects in the world of Bitcoin.
Anyone can participate in block production. All that is required is an
energy source and a communications channel.

Herein lies the main difference when compared to fiat and in-game money:
you don't have to rely on anyone to bring Bitcoin about. You can do it
all yourself.

Bitcoin is here to stay because it is cheap and easy to bring into
existence. It is a networked phenomenon that emerges out of equal peers,
not unlike electricity and the internet before it. The fear of Bitcoin
ceasing to exist arises out of a deep misunderstanding of the nature of
these phenomena. It is akin to asking: "What if electricity goes
away?"

Electricity isn't a magical thing given to us by the high priests of
the Ministry of Electrons. Take a magnet, take a copper wire, and voilà!
You have electricity. Anyone can generate electricity at all times, as
long as they are doing the required work. Electricity is here to stay
precisely because it is *not* brought about by authority. It is
a *natural* phenomenon, brought about by physical interaction. There is
no central authority in charge when it comes to making it. 

Networked computing won't go away either, and for the same reason. Take
two computers, plug them together, and voilà! You have a network. Plug
many networks together, and voilà! You have the internet. The thing
about the internet is that it's most useful when it's largest, which
is why we have one internet, not many. [Footnote: We used to have many,
but it clearly is a winner-takes-all phenomenon.]

The same goes for Bitcoin: run free and open-source software on your
computer, connect it to another node with compatible consensus rules,
and voilà! You have Bitcoin. 

By running consensus software you decide which rules are important to
you. In other words: you decide what Bitcoin is, and it is you who
brings it about---both philosophically, and technically. There are no
servers. You create your own world. And if you're lucky, your view of
the world will overlap sufficiently so that you can communicate and
trade with others. You are free to extend this world, both in accordance
with the rules (block production) and by introducing new rules (forks).
If your rule change is incompatible, your world will cease to overlap
with the worlds of others, leaving you stranded on an island of one.
[Footnote: We will discuss soft- and hard forks in detail in Chapter
16.]

[IMAGE: Insert image of served arena vs consensus.]

Unlike most virtual worlds, the world of Bitcoin arises out of the
intersection of individual points of view. It is not served by authority
but emerges organically out of the agreement of equal peers. The
extension of this digital world is physical and costly. Verification is
mathematical and cheap. It is this asymmetry that brings about the game
theory that keeps everything in balance. 

As long as someone cares about fair, censorship-resistant money that is
independent of the state, Bitcoin will exist. Even if that someone is
only one person. Even if that someone is just you.

### Conclusion

Before Bitcoin, all digital money was *virtual* money. Most virtual
monies are fiat monies, only money because some authority says so. Even
when money emerged naturally in networked games, the worlds that form
these arenas were always *virtual* worlds, designed, controlled, and
maintained by central authorities. Authorities with the power to change
the rules, something that they will always do, either out of
self-interest or emergency. As we have seen, if a central authority can
be identified, the state will step in and force a rule change.

The difference between in-game money and fiat money is in scale, not in
nature. Both are virtual: simulations that are untethered from reality.
And with the introduction of CBDCs, both will be completely digital as
well.

Bitcoin is the first money that is digital but not virtual. Before
Bitcoin, any link between the digital and the physical was always rooted
in trust and human intepretation, not physical reality. Bitcoin's link
to the real world is defined by numbers and their mathematical
relationships; relationships so extreme, that they can only be brought
about by real events in the real world. Consequently, the processes in
Bitcoin are not subject to opinion or interpretation. They are not a
simulation, which is why Bitcoin can't be paused, restarted, or
stopped.

The metaphysical properties of Bitcoin are independent of the
metaphysical nature of numbers. The fact that Bitcoin is "just
numbers" is unimportant. What is important is the process that brings
about these numbers, which is a process that can't be faked, cheated,
or simulated. We know, without a doubt, that the only way to bring a
valid bitcoin block into existence is by expending real energy in the
real world. 

Jaron Lanier quipped that "information is not something that exists."
I disagree. Information that can only exist because of expensive
physical processes has a certain reality to it. It is inconvertible
proof that something happened in the real world. It is "more real"
than the words that you are currently reading. After all, this paragraph
could've been cheaply generated by GPT-3. A valid bitcoin block? Not so
much.

Bitcoin creates a digital world that, at first glance, might be compared
to the virtual worlds of computer games. What we call "sats" can be
understood as endogenous items of the Bitcoin game. As we have seen
in [Chapter 3](https://21-ways.com/3/), sats had no monetary value for
the first 10 months. The moneyness of sats had to emerge over time,
which is what makes bitcoin *natural* money, not fiat money. Sats have
all the properties that are required of good money---which is why they
are used as money, just like the Stone of Jordan was natural money in
the virtual world of Diablo II, and gold was natural money in the
physical world. However, unlike the Stone of Jordan, sats can be
instantiated by anyone, which is what makes them persistent. And unlike
gold, sats are natively digital.

When it comes to money, two questions are of utmost importance: (1) Who
has the authority to create it? (2) Can the mechanism of money creation
be abused?

When it comes to digital money, a third question needs to be answered:
Who is in charge of the arena? 

In the virtual worlds of computer games and fiat monies, whoever is
running the servers is in charge. In Bitcoin, it is *you* and you alone
who is in charge. You and the truth are the final authority, brought
about by mathematics and the physical laws of our universe.

The three questions of print/farm/serve also point to the reasons why
digital monies failed in the past, and why CBDCs will fail in the
future: 

1.  "admins" abused their powers and printed more outright, 
2.  "players" found a way to make more of it cheaply, 
3.  "the arena" ceases to exist, either because of bankruptcy or state
    intervention.

The combination of non-simulatable proof-of-work with cheap, independent
verification and instantiation is what separates Bitcoin from all the
monies that came before it. 

Bitcoin creates a *digital* arena, not a virtual one. It is defined by
reality, not authority. The use of sats as money emerged naturally, not
by decree. Bitcoin's arena is instantiated by individuals who are
voluntarily agreeing to a set of rules, as opposed to virtual worlds
that are instantiated by rulers who dictate the rules for all.

Bitcoin is scarce because time and energy are scarce. The issuance of
sats is related to *time*, not energy. The energy cost is dynamic and
completely unrelated to issuance. More energy won't produce more
bitcoin, it will only disperse the bitcoin that would be issued anyway
more widely while making the Bitcoin network more secure. As we have
seen in Chapter 3, the fact that block production requires electricity
is a feature, not a bug. It acts as an unforgeable costly signal that is
used to build up a trustless arrow of time, as well as a transparent and
publicly verifiable shield around the past. It is an anti-cheat
mechanism to ensure that the past can't be altered cheaply and to
ensure that future issuance can't be farmed efficiently.* *

Consequently, Bitcoin's energy consumption is not a byproduct of the
creation of sats, but a by-product of demand for a fair distribution of
sats. If the demand for sats had stayed with Satoshi and Satoshi alone,
Bitcoin's energy use would be close to zero. If it would've stayed
like this for all of Bitcoin's bootstrapping phase, Satoshi would have
had 100% of the initial coin distribution. After the bootstrapping
phase, it will still be about the fair distribution of sats, but the
sats will be paid, not issued. Energy use is thus related to
decentralization and security, nothing else.

In short: bitcoin can't be printed because it is automatically issued
over time. The system can't be cheated because energy can't be copied.
Proof-of-work can't be simulated, and the difficulty adjustment forbids
the "farming" of blocks. Anyone can participate in, instantiate, and
validate everything.

Bitcoin is a digital item in a digital environment, brought about and
kept alive by physical processes. It is the combination of the physical
with the digital that gives Bitcoin its power: a digital commodity that
can be sent around at the speed of light, inexorably linked to the
physical laws of our universe. It is *digital* gold, not virtual gold.

Virtual currencies like in-game currencies and fiat currencies are not
scarce, because they do neither require time nor energy to create.
God-like entities can create them out of thin air. This is true even if
money emerges naturally in a virtual arena, as was the case in Diablo
II. As long as the arena is virtual, it can be controlled and shut down.
The difference between central banks and game developers is one of
quantity, not quality.

The downside of gold is that it is a physical item in a physical
environment. You can't teleport it, and therein lies the problem.
Bitcoin is a scarce digital commodity that, monetarily speaking, is as
valuable as a scarce physical commodity, precisely because it is issued
and secured by a physical process. Proof-of-work reifies Bitcoin's
blocks as well as the monetary units within them, and it is this
reification of information that allows Bitcoin to transcend the mere
virtual.

But Bitcoin transcends more than just the virtual. It also transcends
all other monies that came before it, by introducing something that
cannot be improved upon further, something that did not and *can
not* exist in the physical world: absolute limitation via zero terminal
inflation.

21 million. Absolute scarcity.
