
> We should treat computers as fancy telephones, whose purpose is to connect
> people. Information is alienated experience. Information is not something that
> exists. Indeed, computers don't really exist, exactly; they're only subject
> to human interpretation. This is a strong primary humanism I am promoting. As
> long as we remember that we ourselves are the source of our value, our
> creativity, our sense of reality, then all of our work with computers will be
> worthwhile and beautiful.
>
> <cite>Jaron Lanier</cite>

> It turns out that the killer application for virtual reality is other human
> beings. Build a world that people want to inhabit, and the inhabitants will
> come.
>
> <cite>Charles Stross</cite>

There is much to be said about virtual worlds. The "information
revolution," as it is called, has been going on for multiple decades,
and it should be apparent to everyone that our world is becoming more
digital by the day. 

But what does that mean, exactly? Does it mean that things are
transforming into something that is less real? Will absolutely
everything dematerialize, ourselves included? Is the rapture of the
nerds[^fn-rapture] imminent, and only those who praise the gods of
the singularity will be saved?

I hope not. While it is true that software is eating the
world,[^fn-software] we have to differentiate between
the *digital* and the *virtual*.  

### Digital vs. Virtual

As any dictionary will tell you, *digital* is anything that can be
expressed as *digits*, i.e. any information that can be represented in
discrete numerical form. In our modern world of binary encoding, that
means everything that can be encoded as zeros and ones.

> "digital | adjective (1) (of signals or data) expressed in discrete
numerical form, especially for use by a computer or other electronic
device."

Not everything that is digital is also virtual. A digital radio is not a
virtual radio, it just works differently than an analog radio. Once said
radio is put into a computer game, however, it clearly becomes
a *virtual* radio.

> "virtual | adjective (1) existing or resulting in essence or effect
though not in actual fact, form, or name. (2) created, simulated, or
carried on by means of a computer or computer network. (3) not
physically existing as such but made by software to appear to do so"

According to one dictionary definition, *virtual* is "anything that is
existing or resulting in *essence* or *effect*, though not
in *actual* fact or form." [^fn-virtual-dictionary] A virtual
meeting room is not an actual meeting room, but it has the *effect* of
one. It is made of bits and bytes as opposed to brick and mortar, but
the meetings that are being held in it, the conversations that are being
had, and the decisions that are being made, are still real.
The *space* is virtual---what happens in it is not.

As we shall see, digital money can and will emerge in virtual worlds. In
fact, it has emerged many times, in multiple worlds and various forms.
To paraphrase Charles Stross: build a world that facilitates trade, and
money will emerge. 

### Virtual Scarcity

As we have seen in Chapter 4, humans have used a multitude of objects as
money over the millennia: cattle, salt, shells, bones, pearls, stones,
copper, bronze, silver, gold, and other precious metals. While the list
of historical monies is long, there is one trait that all functioning
monies share: scarcity. After all, if something is extremely easy to
find or produce, it isn't good money, or at least not for long.

Digital goods aren't naturally scarce. The marginal cost to replicate
them is practically zero, as anyone who ever copy-and-pasted something
can attest to. For this reason, digital scarcity used to be an oxymoron.
If something is digital, it is just information, and information can be
easily copied. 

Before Bitcoin, all digital scarcity was *scarcity by
authority*---authority that can be circumvented or exploited. It was
always *simulated* scarcity. Virtual, not real. 

Without the limitations of physics, digital goods necessitate that a
central authority regulates the issuance, access, and duplication of
said digital goods. If access isn't regulated, anyone can simply take
the information that represents this digital good and make copies of it
(or, sometimes even more problematic: change it). It doesn't matter if
it is the bits and bytes that define the balance of your bank account,
the books in your Kindle, the movies in your Netflix library, the songs
in your Spotify playlists, or the items in your favorite video game. If
access isn't centrally controlled, people will change things to their
advantage. They will update the balance of their bank account and modify
in-game items to make their character more powerful. In other words:
they will cheat. Digital goods are just information, and information
wants to be free---as the unsinkable ships of *Pirate Bay* and endless
leaks and data breaches clearly show. Building a cage around information
is anything but easy.

To get a better understanding of digital goods and their scarcity (or
lack thereof) we will take a look at the virtual worlds that first
spawned them: online games.

### A Short History Of Virtual Economies

In-game economies are almost as old as networked gaming itself. In 1995,
Julian Dibbell published *MUD Money* [Footnote:
https://web.archive.org/web/20070816070650/http://www.juliandibbell.com/texts/mudmoney.html],
which describes how money was introduced in Multi-User Dungeons (MUDs).
Coins would appear randomly in these online worlds, so if you stroll
around for long enough you would, over time, find enough money to pay
for certain goods and services in these games. Randall Farmer, a
researcher at MIT who studied the emergence of virtual economies at this
time, describes how in a game called *Habitat* "players could acquire
[\...] funds by engaging in business, winning contests, finding buried
treasure, and so on." He details how players would get a certain amount
of tokens every time they log in, and how "they could spend their
tokens on, among other things, various items for sale in vending
machines called *Vendroids*. There were also Pawn Machines, which would
buy objects back (at a discount, of course)."

[IMAGE: Insert Adventure MUD image (public domain).] 'Colossal Cave
Adventure' created by Will Crowther in 1975 was one of the first
dungeon games.

Money, gold, points, tokens, and coins are constant companions in almost
all games. Come to think of it, most of the games that we now consider
classics have money-like objects in their virtual worlds: Mario has his
coins, Sonic has his rings, and almost every final boss will drop
precious items or heaps of gold once he is slain. In RPGs in particular,
no matter what kind of creatures you are fighting, you will probably
have to acquire gold to upgrade your weapons and armor. 

However, when it comes to single-player games, the digital coins you
collect are worthless. But once an exchange is facilitated
via *networked* play, things start to get interesting. Players will
inevitably trade the virtual treasures they collected over time, whether
there are official trading mechanisms in the game or not. All that is
required is that the stuff that is found and sold stays around, i.e.
that the shared world is *persistent*.

If a world is shared and persistent, real money and real economies can
emerge. While there are many games that had (and still have) vast
virtual economies, I want to highlight three in particular: *Ultima
Online*, *Diablo 2, and Second Life*.

### Ultima Online: Planning a Virtual Economy

Ultima Online was released on September 24, 1997, by Origin Systems. It
was one of the first MMORPGs [Footnote/glossary: massively multiplayer
online role-playing game] that garnered mainstream attention,
attracting over 100,000 players within six months. Like the MUDs before
it, the world of Ultima Online is a *persistent* world, which means that
your actions and interactions in the game have lasting consequences for
yourself and other players. In stark contrast to single-player games or
non-persistent multiplayer games, you can not "save" the state of your
game and "load" it at a later point. Everything happens in real time,
with real consequences for real people. Consequently, the time and
effort players put into leveling up their characters and gathering items
and resources are real as well, which, in turn, spawn real economies
around these virtual goods.

To quote Zachary Booth Simpson [Footnote:
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5bf1bc95506fbe3baadb7063/t/5c00ac140e2e7265722166af/1543547925580/The+In-game+Economics+of+Ultima+Online.pdf],
who studied the in-game economics of the game extensively: "*Ultima
Online*, and online games similar to it, offer a unique research
platform because, while the commodities traded are virtual, the
resulting economies are not simulations." Matthew Beller from the Mises
Institute [Footnote:
https://mises.org/library/coming-second-life-business-cycle] echoes
this sentiment: "Some economists might dismiss virtual worlds as an
application for economics, given that they do not contain any resources
that are traditionally considered scarce (lumber, steel, oil, etc.), but
a closer inspection reveals that some virtual worlds contain real market
economies complete with scarce resources, property rights,
entrepreneurship, and exchange."

The world of Ultima Online allows for spontaneous economic interaction
between players. Players are free to trade as they see fit, directly,
without restriction in regards to what to trade or with whom. However,
some parts of the game's economy are planned by the game's designers.
For example, players can sell their goods to NPCs [Footnote/glossary:
non-player characters], receiving gold in return. Also, players can
explore the world and harvest natural resources, e.g. hunt wild animals
for fur and meat, cut down trees to gather wood, and so on. Naturally,
these computer-controlled aspects of the game have to be pre-programmed:
how much of a good is an NPC vendor willing to buy, and for what price?
How many rabbits spawn in a certain area? How quickly will a forest
regrow?

[IMAGE: Insert [economic
flow](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5bf1bc95506fbe3baadb7063/t/5c00ac140e2e7265722166af/1543547925580/The+In-game+Economics+of+Ultima+Online.pdf) charts.]
The originally designed and revised economic flow of Ultima Online.

As always, human players were quick to find patterns that could be
exploited. To gain the maximum benefit from exploiting these patterns,
many players used macros and scripts to automate what would otherwise be
tedious tasks. For example, players would automate the production of
goods that netted a laudable profit when sold to NPCs, enabling them to
earn money while they slept. And since NPCs would buy anything as long
as they had money, players were able to earn more money more easily than
the game designers had anticipated, thanks to human ingenuity and
automation. To prevent this overproduction, the game designers
interfered by limiting the number of items an NPC would buy per hour. Of
course, this had some unintended consequences, one of which is described
in Simpson's 1999 research paper: "In order to facilitate these
shopkeeper changes, the AI which required the shopkeepers to keep a
positive cash flow had to be abandoned. Shopkeepers now effectively
print gold in order to pay for the useless goods which are being created
by the manufacturers." Sounds familiar?

As history shows and this example illustrates, planning an economy -
virtual or not - is an impossible task. Every interference, no matter
how benign the central planners believe it to be, will have unintended
consequences and side effects that will beget more interference. If the
rules that are supposed to prevent unauthorized copying can be broken
they will be broken, whether it is by the players or the gods that
control the worlds they inhabit. As we will see over and over again, if
the rules are untethered from the physical world, exploits will be
found, rules will be changed, and economies will suffer. 

Ultima Online is no exception, as Simpson points out: "In the early
stages of UO, players discovered an obscure server fault which allowed
them to clone certain kinds of items, primarily gold and reagents.
Although the programmers discovered this cheat quickly, it took them a
long time to fix it. In the interim, the existing UO worlds became
saturated with gold. Estimates of the inflation value range from
multiples of hundreds of thousands to millions. The hyperinflation
destroyed the gold economy and players resorted to bartering and just
plain-old charity during this period."

The same story plays out over and over again, no matter if the worlds
are virtual or not. If someone finds a way to create more money cheaply,
they inevitably will exploit this advantage, no matter the long-term
consequences. As we shall see, this is also true if the money emerges
naturally in the first place.

### Diablo 2: Duplicating the Stone of Jordan

To me, Diablo 2 is one of the great iconic games of PC game history.
Released in the summer of 2000 it quickly became one of the
fastest-selling games to date, selling over a million copies in the
first two weeks. I purchased my copy on the day the game launched (June
29th) and ended up playing it for thousands of hours. Alone, with
friends, at LAN parties, and online. Oh, the good old times.

Similar to Ultima Online before it, Diablo 2 is an RPG. You can play in
groups (parties) with other players, slay monsters, hunt for loot, and
trade items with others. While Diablo 2 has an in-game currency in the
form of gold, gold isn't used to facilitate trade. The reason is that
the gold that players will find in the game is *horrible* money. First
of all, the amount of gold a player can possess is capped. Your
character can only carry 10,000 gold per level, and your stash
(basically your treasure chest) can only hold between 50,000 and
2,500,000 gold, also depending on your level. Second of all, every time
you die a certain percentage of your gold will disappear. This death
penalty will cost you up to 20% of your gold, no matter where you store
it. It simply vanishes, removing itself from circulation. And third of
all, gold isn't particularly scarce. You will find it everywhere, and
every NPC vendor will gladly buy whatever junk you have and give you
gold for it.

All these peculiar properties make Diablo's in-game gold horrible
money. Consequently, a natural, de-facto money emerged: the *Stone of
Jordan*. 

[IMAGE: Insert image of an SoJ] Emergent in-game money: The Stone of
Jordan

The Stone of Jordan, or SoJ for short, was one of the *unique* (read:
very rare) [Footnote: Unique items in Diablo 2 aren't unique in the
literal sense, but belong to the "unique" class. Other classes are
normal, superior, magic, rare, set, and crafted. Unique items are
exceedingly rare, meaning that the odds that they will spawn more than
once each game are nearly impossible. ] rings in the game. While it had
desirable properties in and of itself, most players didn't use it as an
item to be equipped, but as a currency to facilitate trade. The SoJ was
small and rare, which made it portable and valuable. Using up only one
slot in a player's inventory, many players had dozens of SoJs in their
stash to be used for trading. Prices emerged naturally. Most desirable
weapons - which usually belonged to the unique or set class - traded for
single-digit amounts of SoJs. A *Doombringer* sword was worth between
two and four SoJs, an *Eaglehorn* bow between five and seven, and a
mallet known as *Schaefer's Hammer* was worth between four and six
SoJs. Any item that was worth less than a single SoJ was traded for one
or more *perfect skulls*, another de-facto currency that emerged
naturally. In essence, the perfect skull was the \$1 bill of the game,
and the SoJ was the \$5 bill of the game. Naturally, one SoJ would trade
for 5 perfect skulls. Only the best items were priced in the double
digits in terms of SoJs. One example would be the *Windforce* bow that,
coincidentally, my *Bowazon* was lucky enough to hold in her hands. It
was traded for around 40 SoJs.

The *Stone of Jordan* eventually lost its role as the de-facto money in
Diablo 2. As with all obsolete money, its eventual downfall was that
people found a way to make more of it, cheaply. 

Inflation began gradually. Since the *Stone of Jordan* was such a
valuable item, players began to "farm" it as best as they could. They
found all kinds of ingenious ways to make it "drop" more often,
inflating the supply over time. [Footnote: It is worth pointing out at
this point that our current fiat monies such as the USD can be farmed
too. The easiest way to farm fiat is not by doing work, however, but by
taking on debt.] The game developers even introduced features into the
game that would incentivize players to get rid of the additional SoJ
supply. For example: if enough players sold their SoJ rings to NPC
vendors, a special monster would spawn, known as the *Uber Diablo - *a
clone of the final boss of the game. 

Of course, the cheapest way to make more of something is not to farm it,
but to copy it. And that's exactly what players figured out to do.
People found ways to exploit certain bugs in the game and its servers,
allowing them to duplicate any item of their choosing. These *dupes*, as
they became to be known, were perfect copies of the original item. In
essence, players found a way to double-spend their digital items,
leaving the game's servers and other players none the wiser.

It didn't take long for the in-game economy to collapse. As one player
recounts: "On June 30, 2003, several key developers left Blizzard North
to form new companies. By now the SoJ economy was in ruins [\...]. I
remember well the day when it all collapsed, prices had been inflating
ever so slightly for several weeks and when I logged on that morning to
do business as usual the trade channel was in a state of chaos.
Stormshields were going for 20 SoJ, other higher value items were
impossible to obtain. The heydays were over and everyone knew it. The
once busy trade channels would slowly fade to silence\..."

Eventually, the game developers were able to get a handle on the
situation. Most of the bugs that allowed for this duplication to happen
were fixed, and systems were put in place to identify dupes and destroy
them. Of course, this destructive process wreaked even more havoc on the
whole economy, at least in the short term. Many players didn't know if
their items were dupes or not, so imagine waking up one day to see that
half of your possessions simply vanished overnight.

Over time, other forms of money emerged. The expansion pack "Lord of
Destruction" introduced *rune words* into the game, and with the duping
brought somewhat under control, the runes that were the atomic
components of these words eventually became the new de-facto money. They
share all the monetary properties that the SoJ had, and additionally,
they varied in rarity. This led to runes effectively becoming the \$1,
\$5, \$10, \$20, and \$50 notes of the game.

With the release of Diablo 3 in 2012, the legend of the *Stone of
Jordan* lived on. As a nod to its monetary use in the previous
incarnation of the game series, the developers added the following
sentence to the lore surrounding the ring: *"The Stone of Jordan is far
more valuable than its appearance would suggest. Men have given much to
possess it."*

Once people hone in on one form of money, they do indeed go through
great pains to gather more of the precious good. What's true for gold
and diamonds in meatspace is also true for *Stones of Jordan* and other
rare items in cyberspace. As we shall see, this is also true for
artificially scarce goods such as designer clothes and other luxury
items.

### Second Life: Linden Lab's Interventionism

Launched in 2003, the virtual world of Second Life quickly became an
economic phenomenon. Second Life differs from the games mentioned
previously since it isn't necessarily a game in the first place. You
don't hunt monsters and go on quests, you are simply a resident of a
virtual world. It is an alternative place to meet and do things, a world
where you can be anything and anyone you want to be. In other words: it
is an opportunity to start a second life.

Residents of Second Life craft all kinds of virtual goods: clothing,
vehicles, houses, sculptures, gadgets, artwork - anything that can be
modeled in 3D. Residents can buy cosmetics to improve the appearance of
their avatars, just like we do in the real world. Skin, hair, jewelry,
custom animations - if you can imagine it, someone will craft it and
sell it to you. Apart from objects, some focus on providing services for
their fellow residents: entertainment, education, consulting, business
management, news, and yes, even banking.

As a consequence, many people ditched their real-life job to focus fully
on their *Second Life* job. While the goods might be virtual, the
profits are not, and it didn't take long for the first self-made
millionaires of Second Life to emerge. In 2006, Anshe Chung (known as
Ailin Graef in her first life) became the first person to make over one
million US dollars in Second Life. It took her two and a half years to
build her fortune, mainly working in the virtual real estate business.

In 2009, the total size of the *Second Life* economy grew to USD 567
million, with gross resident earnings of USD 55 million. As of this
writing, Second Life has about 50,000 residents logged into the virtual
world at any given time [Footnote:
http://dwellonit.taterunino.net/sl-statistical-charts/], and an annual
GDP of approximately USD 500 million. To quote Matthew Beller: "Second
Life's economy could reasonably be compared to that of a small foreign
country dependent on tourism." [Footnote:
https://mises.org/library/coming-second-life-business-cycle]

In the game itself, however, it is not US dollars that are circulating.
The currency in Second Life is the Linden dollar (L\$), named after
Linden Lab, the company that created Second Life. Residents can acquire
Linden dollars by parting with their real dollars on an exchange
provided by Linden Lab.

Even though the exchange rate between the Linden dollar and the US
dollar isn't fixed, the "God" in this economy is still Linden Lab.
The company controls all aspects of the game from monetary policy to
physics to what is allowed in what region and who gets to be a resident
and who will be banned. In short: Linden Lab has the power to break the
rules and interfere as they see fit. And interfere they did, many
times. 

Most of these "Acts of Linden," as they became known in the community,
were initiated by the company to steer the virtual world in a certain
direction or improve the bottom line of Linden Lab. One such example
would be the introduction of a value-added tax for all European
residents - a tax for purchasing virtual goods, mind you. Others, such
as the global ban on gambling, were initiated because of pressure due to
real-world government regulations. To quote [the
announcement](https://web.archive.org/web/20071216095626/http://blog.secondlife.com/2007/07/25/wagering-in-second-life-new-policy/) [Footnote:
https://web.archive.org/web/20071216095626/http://blog.secondlife.com/2007/07/25/wagering-in-second-life-new-policy/]
of this new policy: "Second Life Residents must comply with state and
federal laws applicable to regulated online gambling, even when both
operators and players of the games reside outside of the US."

As with all complex systems, interference will often cause a whole set
of intricate problems down the line. The ban on gambling, for example,
led to a run on the banks by both players and operators of casinos,
sports betting institutions, and other gambling businesses.
Consequently, one of the largest banks in the game - *Ginko Financial* -
collapsed, since most ATMs located in the gambling districts were owned
by this bank. Residents quickly drained the reserves of the bank since
Ginko Financial operated on a fractional reserve, just like banks in the
real world do. The virtual bank invested its money primarily in illiquid
goods or virtual securities, just like banks in the real world do. It
was later described as a Ponzi scheme, just like \... you get the idea.

Consequently, another "Act of Linden" followed. Linden Lab updated its
terms of services and
various [policies](https://web.archive.org/web/20200507122527/http://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/Linden_Lab_Official:Policy_regarding_inworld_banks) [Footnote:
https://web.archive.org/web/20200507122527/http://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/Linden_Lab_Official:Policy_regarding_inworld_banks]
to include a new rule for all residents of their virtual world: everyone
who offers an interest-paying service in Second Life must have a
real-life banking license. The reason? Legal risks.

The following is a direct quote from the [Second Life
Blog](http://blog.secondlife.com/2008/01/08/new-policy-regarding-in-world-banks/) [Footnote:
http://blog.secondlife.com/2008/01/08/new-policy-regarding-in-world-banks/]:
"As of January 22, 2008, it will be prohibited to offer interest or any
direct return on an investment (whether in L\$ or other currency) from
any object, such as an ATM, located in Second Life, without proof of an
applicable government registration statement or financial institution
charter. We're implementing this policy after reviewing Resident
complaints, banking activities, and the law, and we're doing it to
protect our Residents and the integrity of our economy."

Second Life shows two things very clearly: (1) Artificially regulating a
complex system is not only difficult, but it will almost always have
unintended consequences that might make the problem worse. (2) If you
are a centralized and identifiable entity that has the power to change
the rules, the real-world state will intervene.

There is a lot to be learned from the controlled laboratory experiment
that is Second Life. In many ways, Linden Labs failed to create a stable
and controlled closed-loop economy, even with the godlike powers they
have over all aspects of the game. As Joseph Potts put it: "whether in
real life or the virtual one, the creation of money by fiat produces
booms and busts, and this even in a world in which the 'government'
can and does create (all) value." [Footnote:
https://mises.org/wire/and-thus-it-came-pass]
