media.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Media Appearances
description: Podcasts, Presentations, Twitter Threads
redirect_from:
  - /interviews
  - /bitcoin/media
  - /bitcoin/interviews
---

Over the last couple of years, I had the pleasure of speaking on various
podcasts, conferences, and live shows to talk about Bitcoin and its
implications. While the conversations mostly revolve around Bitcoin, they
sometimes stray into other, related topics.

In the hectic world of today, it is often challenging to find the time to read
long articles and books, which is why I love podcasts and recorded conversations
of all kinds. If you do too, here are some
[conversations](#interviews-and-conversations) and [talks](#talks) where I share
my thoughts about Bitcoin. There are also some [guest posts](#guest-posts)
and popular [twitter threads](#twitter-threads) linked at
the bottom of this page.

### Interviews and Conversations

  - **2020-10-13** - [Bit-buy-bit #48][bbb48] on the Corporate Bitcoin Standard, Conviction, Soul in the Game, Privacy vs NgU, and fighting the FED and the Surveillance State, hosted by Max
  - **2020-09-20** - [Down The Rabbit Hole][dtrh5] on Bitcoin's Biology and many other topics, hosted by Kaz Bycko
  - **2020-09-12** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib4] with Anders and Kenn, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib4-yt])
  - **2020-09-02** - [POV Crypto #160][pov160] on the circular nature and religious aspects of the Bitcoin organism, hosted by Christian and David
  - **2020-06-25** - [Bitcoin & Co #67][anita67] on the ongoing process of Bitcoinization, hosted by Anita Bosch
  - **2020-06-25** - [Swan Signal #16][ss16] with Udi Wertheimer, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss16-yt])
  - **2020-06-22** - [Vivek #12][vivek] on Bitcoin in 1000 years from now, hosted by Vivek (also on [Spotify][vivek-spotify])
  - **2020-06-15** - [ABNP #143][mrpseu] on time, the oracle problem, OpSec, identity, and self-sovereignty, hosted by Mr. Pseu
  - **2020-05-22** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib3] with Juan and Guy, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib3-yt])
  - **2020-05-20** - [Swan Signal #11][ss11] with Knut, Brekkie, and Cory, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss11-yt])

[bbb48]: https://www.bit-buy-bit.com/podcast-1/episode/3f29621c/ep48-bitcoin-podcast-with-gigi-the-author-of-21lessons
[dtrh5]: https://anchor.fm/dtrhole/episodes/DTRH5---The-Biology-of-Bitcoin-with-Gigi-ejtue4

  ---

  - **2020-05-11** - [Celebrating the Third Bitcoin Halving][define-your-moon]: Define your Moon with BitcoinTina and David Bailey hosted by Bitcoin Magazine
  - **2020-05-11** - [Panel Discussion][vob-panel] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference with Knut, Nik, Conner, Katie, and Max, hosted by John Vallis
  - **2020-04-15** - [Al's Lacrosse][als] on 21 Lessons, biology, complexity theatre, and PoW, hosted by Dirtbag Al
  - **2020-04-09** - [Once Bitten #26][once-bitten26] on privacy and the difference between the legacy and the Bitcoin world, hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-03-14** - [Swan Signal #1][ss1] with Guy, Yan, Hass, John, and Cory on the current state of the world and Bitcoin, hosted by Brady ([transcript][ss1-txt])
  - **2020-03-04** - [Fun With Bitcoin #70][fwb70] on the Shitcoin Trap and why Bitcoin is superior, hosted by Coinicarus
  - **2020-02-12** - [Once Bitten #6][once-bitten6] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-01-24** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib2] with Mauricio Di Bartolomeo and David Bennett, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib2-youtube])
  - **2020-01-20** - [Total Bitcoin #63][keyvan63] on Bitcoin's Adoption Cycles, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan63-yt])
  - **2020-01-10** - [Stephan Livera Podcast #140][slp140] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity, hosted by Stephan Livera
  - **2019-10-13** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #31][bec31] on Bitcoin as a Religion and other cosmic thoughts, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-10-11** - [Citizen Bitcoin #54][cb54] on the Circularity of the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole, hosted by Brady  
  - **2019-09-04** - [Rapid Fire #6][rf6-discussion] on Narratives, Bitcoin Monks, Bitcoin Zen, and much more, hosted by John Vallis ([discussion][rf6-discussion], [rapid fire][rf6-fire])
  - **2019-08-22** - [CryptoChat #20][cryptochat20] on the Bitcoin Organism with Brandon Quittem, hosted by Guy Swann
  - **2019-08-11** - [DYKC #47][dykc47] on Bitcoin as a living organism, the political nature of an apolitical protocol, and more; hosted by Dustin
  - **2019-07-30** - [The Bitcoin Takeover S3E6][takeover] on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism, politics, Bitcoin as pure information, and many other topics, hosted by Vlad Costea (also on [youtube][takeover-youtube])
  - **2019-07-01** - [Fun with Crypto #30][fwc30] on Bitcoin as an exponential technology
  - **2019-06-28** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib] with BTC Sessions and Steve Barbour, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib-youtube])
  - **2019-06-24** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #22][bec22] on the BTC paradigm shift, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-06-23** - [Discussion on privacy][keyvan-privacy] with Matt Odell and Aleksandar Svetski, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-privacy-yt])
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #10][turm10] on Technology, Chapter 3
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #9][turm9] on Economics, Chapter 2
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #8][turm8] on Philosophy, Chapter 1
  - **2019-06-06** - [POV Crypto #56][pov56] on Bitcoin's Gravity, Monetary Maximalism, Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work with Christian and David
  - **2019-05-23** - [Citizen Bitcoin #38][cb38] on 21lessons.com with Brady
  - **2019-05-08** - [Contrarian Island #7][ci7] on Bitcoin's Gravity
  - **2019-04-21** - [German interview][keyvan-german] with Keyvan (also on [youtube][keyvan-german])
  - **2019-04-19** - [English interview][keyvan-english] with Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-english])

Want to talk? Feel free to [reach out to me][contact].

### Talks

- **2020-06-02** - [Keynote: The Bitcoin Journey][vob-bitcoin-journey] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference Digital Europe
- **2020-05-11** - [Keynote: Competing With Free][vob-competing-with-free] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference Digital America

[vob-bitcoin-journey]: https://youtu.be/qVuFX0LkNDQ
[vob-competing-with-free]: https://youtu.be/JtzwTd9Ur5c

### Guest Posts

I have written various articles for the [Swan Bitcoin Blog][swan-blog] and
the [Bull Bitcoin][bull-bitcoin] publication. I have also contributed to
[Citadel 21][ctdl21] and the [21ism Art Collective][21ism].

- **2020-09-20** - [On Bitcoin's UX][swan-ux] on the Swan Signal blog
- **2020-08-18** - [Why I Joined Swan Bitcoin][swan-joined] on the Swan Signal blog
- **2020-07-21** - [True Names Not Required][ctdl21-true-names] for Citadel 21
- **2020-04-21** - [Dear Bitcoiners][ctdl21-dear-bitcoiners] for Citadel 21
- **2019-11-21** - [Bitcoin Boots on the Ground: Venezuela][bull-venezuela] on the Bull Bitcoin blog
- **2019-08-22** - [The Rise of the Sovereign Individual][bull-rise] on the Bull Bitcoin blog
- **2019-07-23** - [The World is Waking up to Bitcoin][bull-waking-up] on the Bull Bitcoin blog

<!-- 21ism -->
[21ism]: https://21ism.com/

<!-- Citadel 21 -->
[ctdl21-true-names]: https://www.citadel21.com/true-names-not-required
[ctdl21-dear-bitcoiners]: https://www.citadel21.com/dear-bitcoiners-an-optimistic-letter
[ctdl21]: https://www.citadel21.com/

<!-- Swan -->
[swan-ux]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/on-bitcoins-ux
[swan-joined]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/why-i-joined-swan-bitcoin
[swan-blog]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/signal

<!-- Bull Bitcoin -->
[bull-venezuela]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/bitcoin-boots-on-the-ground-venezuela-7ee01f966eff
[bull-rise]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/the-rise-of-the-sovereign-individual-2201eee82f00
[bull-waking-up]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/the-world-is-waking-up-to-bitcoin-5d532a1188ce
[bull-bitcoin]: https://bullbitcoin.com/

---

### Twitter Threads

I use twitter to share and distill my thoughts, which sometimes leads to
long-form twitter threads in which I try to flesh out certain ideas in a more
public format. Here are some threads that resonated most:

- **2020-10-08** - ["GigaChad Thread"][tw-gigachad] - A thread on MicroStrategy's move to a Corporate Bitcoin Standard.
- **2020-09-21** - ["Bitcoin's UX"][tw-ux] - A thread on Bitcoin's UX and how it compares to the UX of the early internet.
- **2020-09-19** - ["Inflow/Balance/Outflow"][tw-balance] - A thread on inflows, outflows, balance sheets, and how a circular Bitcoin economy might resolve some points of contention around SoV and MoE.
- **2020-07-09** - ["Passports and Biometrics"][tw-passports] - A thread on digital passports, facial recognition, biometrics, and other shenanigans.
- **2020-07-02** - ["The Price of Tomorrow"][tw-price-tomorrow] - A quick thread on The Price of Tomorrow, a book by Jeff Booth.
- **2020-05-11** - ["Halving Memes 2020"][tw-halving2020] - A long thread of memes to celebrate the 3rd Bitcoin Halving.
- **2019-12-23** - ["Bitcoin's Eternal Struggle"][tw-struggle] - A thread on Bitcoin's struggle between order and chaos.
- **2019-10-30** - ["Circularity"][tw-circularity] - A thread about Bitcoin, religion, mirrors, my rabbit hole journey, and where Bitcoin (and bitcoiners) might go in the next couple of years.
- **2019-10-21** - ["Bitcoin is a religion"][tw-religion] - A meta-thread about Bitcoin as a base axiom for one's world view.
- **2019-10-12** - ["Conviction. Meaning. Truth."][tw-conviction] - A thread on the level of conviction Bitcoin instills in some bitcoiners.
- **2019-08-07** - ["Proof of Life"][tw-life] - A thread on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism.
- **2019-05-23** - ["Digital Hygiene"][tw-hygiene] - A thread on digital hygiene, freedom of speech, identity, privacy, and net neutrality.
- **2019-05-01** - ["Bitcoin's Gravity"][tw-gravity] - A thread on how idea-value-feedback loops are pulling people into Bitcoin.
- **2019-04-02** - ["Technological Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-technology] - A thread on what I've learned about technology thanks to studying Bitcoin.
- **2019-01-12** - ["Economic Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-economics] - A thread on what I've learned about economics thanks to studying Bitcoin.
- **2018-12-21** - ["Philosophical Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-philosophy] - A thread on what I've learned about philosophy thanks to studying Bitcoin.

[tw-gigachad]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1314292693179289602
[tw-ux]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1308098052817903616
[tw-balance]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1307397137572007939
[tw-passports]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1148572041416708097
[tw-price-tomorrow]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1278627021082558465
[tw-halving2020]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1259834736165388290
[tw-struggle]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1209206478931927046
[tw-circularity]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1189608467029516289
[tw-religion]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1186350297645498368
[tw-conviction]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1182871327931359233
[tw-life]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1159152860258623495
[tw-hygiene]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1142741744024469504
[tw-gravity]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1123544885821366272
[tw-technology]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1112960763361222656
[tw-economics]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1083884324871643137
[tw-philosophy]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1076241029576179712

---

Want to collaborate? Don't hesitate to [reach out][contact]!

[keyvan-german]: https://youtu.be/ShbOXJ0Qj2c
[keyvan-english]: https://youtu.be/RrW2yhEY39Y
[keyvan-pod-de]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/For-German-speaking-Listeners-Deutsch-sprachiges-Interview-mit-dem-Bitcoiner-Gigi-aufgenommen-am-21--April--2019-e3ss2f
[keyvan-pod-en]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/Interview-with-Gigi--Bitcoiner--Bitcoin-e3r65v
[ci7]: http://contrarianisland.buzzsprout.com/265373/1106735-contrarian-island-7-gigi-bitcoin-s-gravity
[cb38]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-21-lessons-from-down-the-bitcoin
[pov56]: https://medium.com/@TrustlessState/the-gravity-of-monetary-maximalism-cf968dd23268
[turm8]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/8
[turm9]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/9
[turm10]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/10
[keyvan-privacy]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TheTotalConnector11-Interview-with-Aleks-Svetski--Gigi--and-Matt-Odell-on-Bitcoin-e4dq7a
[keyvan-privacy-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M58cq0bRwng
[bec22]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/06/24/paradigm-shift-with-gigi-bec022/
[twib]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--6-28-2019--Future-of-Altcoins--Gold--BTC-mining--21-Lessons--Coinbase-outage-e4fpnd
[twib-youtube]: https://youtu.be/VxG57es11kM
[fwc30]: http://funwithcrypto.libsyn.com/interviewdiscussion-with-dergigi
[takeover]: https://bitcoin-takeover.com/s3-e6-gigi-on-bitcoin-as-a-living-organism/
[takeover-youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtmW4oIFs-w
[dykc47]: http://didyouknowcrypto.com/ep47/
[cryptochat20]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoChat_020---ITS-ALIVE---Brandon-Quittem--Der-Gigi-on-the-Bitcoin-Organism-e522gb
[rf6-discussion]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Further-Discussion-Gigi-e57fdh
[rf6-fire]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Gigi-Down-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole-e57f8j
[cb54]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-rabbit-hole-revelations
[bec31]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/10/13/bitcoin-lives-with-gigi-bec031/
[slp140]: https://stephanlivera.com/episode/140/
[keyvan63]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TotalBitcoin-63-Gigi---Bitcoin-is-a-Marathon-eaa3ka
[keyvan63-yt]: https://youtu.be/H9skOpUVfIk
[twib2]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--1-24-2020--Centralized-time--Coinbase--Bcash--Fed-Coins--Venezuela--Insurance-eadkqf
[twib2-youtube]: https://youtu.be/vZcf5eRz-Gs
[once-bitten6]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Bitcoin-Is-A-Harsh-Mistress-eapg7e
[fwb70]: https://anchor.fm/funwithbitcoin/episodes/Interviewdiscussion-with-DerGigi--definitive-shitcoin-dump-episode-eb8c6j
[ss1]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/regrouping-after-a-bitcoin-price-crash-episode-1
[ss1-txt]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/swan-roundtable-market-crash-coronavirus-bitcoin-price/
[once-bitten26]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Dergigi-Just-Three-More-Halvings-ecinjv
[vob-panel]: https://youtu.be/D11bW2YlNJ8
[define-your-moon]: https://youtu.be/lx4Jlq1iIy4
[ss11]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/knut-svanholm-and-gigi-e11
[ss11-yt]: https://youtu.be/ExzzQzh7BLU
[twib3]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--5-22-2020--Fake-Satoshi-coins--Pizza-day--Mempool--Lightning-Network--BTC-365-day-moving-average-eeeskd
[twib3-yt]: https://youtu.be/HtkJ_KRsY4M
[mrpseu]: https://pgibs.io/2020/06/15/143-secret-keys-with-dergigi/
[als]: https://youtu.be/9b2OdjXeC88
[vivek]: https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9mZWVkcy50cmFuc2lzdG9yLmZtL3RoZS12aXZlay1wb2RjYXN0/episode/MzRiZWViMjktNTE0MC00MDg5LWI3NjYtZjE0OTIxMzg3ZjA4
[vivek-spotify]: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0rKlBKcG7N2KpRkWdoPcuT?si=yK_7acdqQVakAm3Om8VbmA
[ss16]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/gigi-and-udi-wertheimer-e16
[ss16-yt]: https://youtu.be/K3l6-voNzSY
[anita67]: https://bitcoinundco.com/en/gigi/
[pov160]: http://povcryptopod.libsyn.com/160-bitcoin-and-ethereum-is-a-religion-organism-and-state
[twib4]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--9-11-2020--Blacklist--SushiSwap--Belarus--UBI--Yearn-finance--inflation--hyperbitcoinization-ejg3mj
[twib4-yt]: https://youtu.be/c2ESlD0FjSc


[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}

Commit message:

chore(media): add sats thread

media.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Media Appearances
description: Podcasts, Presentations, Twitter Threads
redirect_from:
  - /interviews
  - /bitcoin/media
  - /bitcoin/interviews
---

Over the last couple of years, I had the pleasure of speaking on various
podcasts, conferences, and live shows to talk about Bitcoin and its
implications. While the conversations mostly revolve around Bitcoin, they
sometimes stray into other, related topics.

In the hectic world of today, it is often challenging to find the time to read
long articles and books, which is why I love podcasts and recorded conversations
of all kinds. If you do too, here are some
[conversations](#interviews-and-conversations) and [talks](#talks) where I share
my thoughts about Bitcoin. There are also some [guest posts](#guest-posts)
and popular [twitter threads](#twitter-threads) linked at
the bottom of this page.

### Interviews and Conversations

  - **2020-10-13** - [Bit-buy-bit #48][bbb48] on the Corporate Bitcoin Standard, Conviction, Soul in the Game, Privacy vs NgU, and fighting the FED and the Surveillance State, hosted by Max
  - **2020-09-20** - [Down The Rabbit Hole][dtrh5] on Bitcoin's Biology and many other topics, hosted by Kaz Bycko
  - **2020-09-12** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib4] with Anders and Kenn, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib4-yt])
  - **2020-09-02** - [POV Crypto #160][pov160] on the circular nature and religious aspects of the Bitcoin organism, hosted by Christian and David
  - **2020-06-25** - [Bitcoin & Co #67][anita67] on the ongoing process of Bitcoinization, hosted by Anita Bosch
  - **2020-06-25** - [Swan Signal #16][ss16] with Udi Wertheimer, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss16-yt])
  - **2020-06-22** - [Vivek #12][vivek] on Bitcoin in 1000 years from now, hosted by Vivek (also on [Spotify][vivek-spotify])
  - **2020-06-15** - [ABNP #143][mrpseu] on time, the oracle problem, OpSec, identity, and self-sovereignty, hosted by Mr. Pseu
  - **2020-05-22** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib3] with Juan and Guy, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib3-yt])
  - **2020-05-20** - [Swan Signal #11][ss11] with Knut, Brekkie, and Cory, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss11-yt])

[bbb48]: https://www.bit-buy-bit.com/podcast-1/episode/3f29621c/ep48-bitcoin-podcast-with-gigi-the-author-of-21lessons
[dtrh5]: https://anchor.fm/dtrhole/episodes/DTRH5---The-Biology-of-Bitcoin-with-Gigi-ejtue4

  ---

  - **2020-05-11** - [Celebrating the Third Bitcoin Halving][define-your-moon]: Define your Moon with BitcoinTina and David Bailey hosted by Bitcoin Magazine
  - **2020-05-11** - [Panel Discussion][vob-panel] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference with Knut, Nik, Conner, Katie, and Max, hosted by John Vallis
  - **2020-04-15** - [Al's Lacrosse][als] on 21 Lessons, biology, complexity theatre, and PoW, hosted by Dirtbag Al
  - **2020-04-09** - [Once Bitten #26][once-bitten26] on privacy and the difference between the legacy and the Bitcoin world, hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-03-14** - [Swan Signal #1][ss1] with Guy, Yan, Hass, John, and Cory on the current state of the world and Bitcoin, hosted by Brady ([transcript][ss1-txt])
  - **2020-03-04** - [Fun With Bitcoin #70][fwb70] on the Shitcoin Trap and why Bitcoin is superior, hosted by Coinicarus
  - **2020-02-12** - [Once Bitten #6][once-bitten6] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-01-24** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib2] with Mauricio Di Bartolomeo and David Bennett, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib2-youtube])
  - **2020-01-20** - [Total Bitcoin #63][keyvan63] on Bitcoin's Adoption Cycles, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan63-yt])
  - **2020-01-10** - [Stephan Livera Podcast #140][slp140] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity, hosted by Stephan Livera
  - **2019-10-13** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #31][bec31] on Bitcoin as a Religion and other cosmic thoughts, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-10-11** - [Citizen Bitcoin #54][cb54] on the Circularity of the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole, hosted by Brady  
  - **2019-09-04** - [Rapid Fire #6][rf6-discussion] on Narratives, Bitcoin Monks, Bitcoin Zen, and much more, hosted by John Vallis ([discussion][rf6-discussion], [rapid fire][rf6-fire])
  - **2019-08-22** - [CryptoChat #20][cryptochat20] on the Bitcoin Organism with Brandon Quittem, hosted by Guy Swann
  - **2019-08-11** - [DYKC #47][dykc47] on Bitcoin as a living organism, the political nature of an apolitical protocol, and more; hosted by Dustin
  - **2019-07-30** - [The Bitcoin Takeover S3E6][takeover] on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism, politics, Bitcoin as pure information, and many other topics, hosted by Vlad Costea (also on [youtube][takeover-youtube])
  - **2019-07-01** - [Fun with Crypto #30][fwc30] on Bitcoin as an exponential technology
  - **2019-06-28** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib] with BTC Sessions and Steve Barbour, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib-youtube])
  - **2019-06-24** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #22][bec22] on the BTC paradigm shift, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-06-23** - [Discussion on privacy][keyvan-privacy] with Matt Odell and Aleksandar Svetski, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-privacy-yt])
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #10][turm10] on Technology, Chapter 3
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #9][turm9] on Economics, Chapter 2
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #8][turm8] on Philosophy, Chapter 1
  - **2019-06-06** - [POV Crypto #56][pov56] on Bitcoin's Gravity, Monetary Maximalism, Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work with Christian and David
  - **2019-05-23** - [Citizen Bitcoin #38][cb38] on 21lessons.com with Brady
  - **2019-05-08** - [Contrarian Island #7][ci7] on Bitcoin's Gravity
  - **2019-04-21** - [German interview][keyvan-german] with Keyvan (also on [youtube][keyvan-german])
  - **2019-04-19** - [English interview][keyvan-english] with Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-english])

Want to talk? Feel free to [reach out to me][contact].

### Talks

- **2020-06-02** - [Keynote: The Bitcoin Journey][vob-bitcoin-journey] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference Digital Europe
- **2020-05-11** - [Keynote: Competing With Free][vob-competing-with-free] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference Digital America

[vob-bitcoin-journey]: https://youtu.be/qVuFX0LkNDQ
[vob-competing-with-free]: https://youtu.be/JtzwTd9Ur5c

### Guest Posts

I have written various articles for the [Swan Bitcoin Blog][swan-blog] and
the [Bull Bitcoin][bull-bitcoin] publication. I have also contributed to
[Citadel 21][ctdl21] and the [21ism Art Collective][21ism].

- **2020-09-20** - [On Bitcoin's UX][swan-ux] on the Swan Signal blog
- **2020-08-18** - [Why I Joined Swan Bitcoin][swan-joined] on the Swan Signal blog
- **2020-07-21** - [True Names Not Required][ctdl21-true-names] for Citadel 21
- **2020-04-21** - [Dear Bitcoiners][ctdl21-dear-bitcoiners] for Citadel 21
- **2019-11-21** - [Bitcoin Boots on the Ground: Venezuela][bull-venezuela] on the Bull Bitcoin blog
- **2019-08-22** - [The Rise of the Sovereign Individual][bull-rise] on the Bull Bitcoin blog
- **2019-07-23** - [The World is Waking up to Bitcoin][bull-waking-up] on the Bull Bitcoin blog

<!-- 21ism -->
[21ism]: https://21ism.com/

<!-- Citadel 21 -->
[ctdl21-true-names]: https://www.citadel21.com/true-names-not-required
[ctdl21-dear-bitcoiners]: https://www.citadel21.com/dear-bitcoiners-an-optimistic-letter
[ctdl21]: https://www.citadel21.com/

<!-- Swan -->
[swan-ux]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/on-bitcoins-ux
[swan-joined]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/why-i-joined-swan-bitcoin
[swan-blog]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/signal

<!-- Bull Bitcoin -->
[bull-venezuela]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/bitcoin-boots-on-the-ground-venezuela-7ee01f966eff
[bull-rise]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/the-rise-of-the-sovereign-individual-2201eee82f00
[bull-waking-up]: https://medium.com/bull-bitcoin/the-world-is-waking-up-to-bitcoin-5d532a1188ce
[bull-bitcoin]: https://bullbitcoin.com/

---

### Twitter Threads

I use twitter to share and distill my thoughts, which sometimes leads to
long-form twitter threads in which I try to flesh out certain ideas in a more
public format. Here are some threads that resonated most:

- **2020-10-08** - ["GigaChad Thread"][tw-gigachad] - A thread on MicroStrategy's move to a Corporate Bitcoin Standard.
- **2020-09-21** - ["Bitcoin's UX"][tw-ux] - A thread on Bitcoin's UX and how it compares to the UX of the early internet.
- **2020-09-19** - ["Inflow/Balance/Outflow"][tw-balance] - A thread on inflows, outflows, balance sheets, and how a circular Bitcoin economy might resolve some points of contention around SoV and MoE.
- **2020-07-09** - ["Passports and Biometrics"][tw-passports] - A thread on digital passports, facial recognition, biometrics, and other shenanigans.
- **2020-07-03** - ["Sats are my numeraire"][tw-sats] - A thread on #satsthestandard and the sat symbol.
- **2020-07-02** - ["The Price of Tomorrow"][tw-price-tomorrow] - A quick thread on The Price of Tomorrow, a book by Jeff Booth.
- **2020-05-11** - ["Halving Memes 2020"][tw-halving2020] - A long thread of memes to celebrate the 3rd Bitcoin Halving.
- **2019-12-23** - ["Bitcoin's Eternal Struggle"][tw-struggle] - A thread on Bitcoin's struggle between order and chaos.
- **2019-10-30** - ["Circularity"][tw-circularity] - A thread about Bitcoin, religion, mirrors, my rabbit hole journey, and where Bitcoin (and bitcoiners) might go in the next couple of years.
- **2019-10-21** - ["Bitcoin is a religion"][tw-religion] - A meta-thread about Bitcoin as a base axiom for one's world view.
- **2019-10-12** - ["Conviction. Meaning. Truth."][tw-conviction] - A thread on the level of conviction Bitcoin instills in some bitcoiners.
- **2019-08-07** - ["Proof of Life"][tw-life] - A thread on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism.
- **2019-05-23** - ["Digital Hygiene"][tw-hygiene] - A thread on digital hygiene, freedom of speech, identity, privacy, and net neutrality.
- **2019-05-01** - ["Bitcoin's Gravity"][tw-gravity] - A thread on how idea-value-feedback loops are pulling people into Bitcoin.
- **2019-04-02** - ["Technological Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-technology] - A thread on what I've learned about technology thanks to studying Bitcoin.
- **2019-01-12** - ["Economic Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-economics] - A thread on what I've learned about economics thanks to studying Bitcoin.
- **2018-12-21** - ["Philosophical Teachings of Bitcoin"][tw-philosophy] - A thread on what I've learned about philosophy thanks to studying Bitcoin.

[tw-gigachad]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1314292693179289602
[tw-ux]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1308098052817903616
[tw-balance]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1307397137572007939
[tw-passports]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1148572041416708097
[tw-sats]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1279015069280542721
[tw-price-tomorrow]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1278627021082558465
[tw-halving2020]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1259834736165388290
[tw-struggle]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1209206478931927046
[tw-circularity]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1189608467029516289
[tw-religion]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1186350297645498368
[tw-conviction]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1182871327931359233
[tw-life]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1159152860258623495
[tw-hygiene]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1142741744024469504
[tw-gravity]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1123544885821366272
[tw-technology]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1112960763361222656
[tw-economics]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1083884324871643137
[tw-philosophy]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1076241029576179712

---

Want to collaborate? Don't hesitate to [reach out][contact]!

[keyvan-german]: https://youtu.be/ShbOXJ0Qj2c
[keyvan-english]: https://youtu.be/RrW2yhEY39Y
[keyvan-pod-de]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/For-German-speaking-Listeners-Deutsch-sprachiges-Interview-mit-dem-Bitcoiner-Gigi-aufgenommen-am-21--April--2019-e3ss2f
[keyvan-pod-en]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/Interview-with-Gigi--Bitcoiner--Bitcoin-e3r65v
[ci7]: http://contrarianisland.buzzsprout.com/265373/1106735-contrarian-island-7-gigi-bitcoin-s-gravity
[cb38]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-21-lessons-from-down-the-bitcoin
[pov56]: https://medium.com/@TrustlessState/the-gravity-of-monetary-maximalism-cf968dd23268
[turm8]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/8
[turm9]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/9
[turm10]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/10
[keyvan-privacy]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TheTotalConnector11-Interview-with-Aleks-Svetski--Gigi--and-Matt-Odell-on-Bitcoin-e4dq7a
[keyvan-privacy-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M58cq0bRwng
[bec22]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/06/24/paradigm-shift-with-gigi-bec022/
[twib]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--6-28-2019--Future-of-Altcoins--Gold--BTC-mining--21-Lessons--Coinbase-outage-e4fpnd
[twib-youtube]: https://youtu.be/VxG57es11kM
[fwc30]: http://funwithcrypto.libsyn.com/interviewdiscussion-with-dergigi
[takeover]: https://bitcoin-takeover.com/s3-e6-gigi-on-bitcoin-as-a-living-organism/
[takeover-youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtmW4oIFs-w
[dykc47]: http://didyouknowcrypto.com/ep47/
[cryptochat20]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoChat_020---ITS-ALIVE---Brandon-Quittem--Der-Gigi-on-the-Bitcoin-Organism-e522gb
[rf6-discussion]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Further-Discussion-Gigi-e57fdh
[rf6-fire]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Gigi-Down-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole-e57f8j
[cb54]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-rabbit-hole-revelations
[bec31]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/10/13/bitcoin-lives-with-gigi-bec031/
[slp140]: https://stephanlivera.com/episode/140/
[keyvan63]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TotalBitcoin-63-Gigi---Bitcoin-is-a-Marathon-eaa3ka
[keyvan63-yt]: https://youtu.be/H9skOpUVfIk
[twib2]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--1-24-2020--Centralized-time--Coinbase--Bcash--Fed-Coins--Venezuela--Insurance-eadkqf
[twib2-youtube]: https://youtu.be/vZcf5eRz-Gs
[once-bitten6]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Bitcoin-Is-A-Harsh-Mistress-eapg7e
[fwb70]: https://anchor.fm/funwithbitcoin/episodes/Interviewdiscussion-with-DerGigi--definitive-shitcoin-dump-episode-eb8c6j
[ss1]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/regrouping-after-a-bitcoin-price-crash-episode-1
[ss1-txt]: https://www.swanbitcoin.com/swan-roundtable-market-crash-coronavirus-bitcoin-price/
[once-bitten26]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Dergigi-Just-Three-More-Halvings-ecinjv
[vob-panel]: https://youtu.be/D11bW2YlNJ8
[define-your-moon]: https://youtu.be/lx4Jlq1iIy4
[ss11]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/knut-svanholm-and-gigi-e11
[ss11-yt]: https://youtu.be/ExzzQzh7BLU
[twib3]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--5-22-2020--Fake-Satoshi-coins--Pizza-day--Mempool--Lightning-Network--BTC-365-day-moving-average-eeeskd
[twib3-yt]: https://youtu.be/HtkJ_KRsY4M
[mrpseu]: https://pgibs.io/2020/06/15/143-secret-keys-with-dergigi/
[als]: https://youtu.be/9b2OdjXeC88
[vivek]: https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9mZWVkcy50cmFuc2lzdG9yLmZtL3RoZS12aXZlay1wb2RjYXN0/episode/MzRiZWViMjktNTE0MC00MDg5LWI3NjYtZjE0OTIxMzg3ZjA4
[vivek-spotify]: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0rKlBKcG7N2KpRkWdoPcuT?si=yK_7acdqQVakAm3Om8VbmA
[ss16]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/gigi-and-udi-wertheimer-e16
[ss16-yt]: https://youtu.be/K3l6-voNzSY
[anita67]: https://bitcoinundco.com/en/gigi/
[pov160]: http://povcryptopod.libsyn.com/160-bitcoin-and-ethereum-is-a-religion-organism-and-state
[twib4]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--9-11-2020--Blacklist--SushiSwap--Belarus--UBI--Yearn-finance--inflation--hyperbitcoinization-ejg3mj
[twib4-yt]: https://youtu.be/c2ESlD0FjSc


[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}
