support.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Support
---


Dear Netizen, \\
the easiest way to support me is to [buy my book](https://amzn.to/2VXmQgp) -
although you could also read it for free on the web.

Paying for immaterial stuff on the internet is a weird thing.
Everyone got used to the fact that everything is available for free, all the
time. I got used to that too, and I tend to close paywalls as fast and as
subconsciously as I pull my hand away from a hot stove.

I believe, however, that there is something which could work for everyone
involved. Something which has been working for hundreds, even thousands of
years: supporting what you like, just because. Call it tipping, call it
gratuity, call it busking.

{% include tippin-me-button.html %}

Monetizing information is a hard problem. Information wants to be free, and I
think we should not build cages - no matter how pretty - for the sake of
imprisoning information. This is one of the reasons why I don't intend to charge
for bits and bytes.

There is Patreon, of course, which is a great start. However, it suffers from
the same problem that all centralized platforms will inevitably suffer from:
power and control, which has the habit of resulting in interference and
censorship. I'm not a fan of interference. And I despise censorship.

{% include btcpay-donate.html %}

Luckily, we now live in a world where Bitcoin exists. We can give directly, just
like in the olden days, where buskers performed for everyone, and a handful of
people were kind enough to pay a handful of coins to the artist, directly. I
hope that our society will return to this way of giving, at least in some
corners of the internet some of the time.

I don't track views on this site, or clicks, or anything else. I don't know how
many people will read this, and I don't want to know.  Knowledge is power - and
I have no interest in having this kind of power.

I believe that people should have the right to remain private. To speak
privately, read privately, watch privately, transact privately. To privately
consume and create any kind of information. After all, progress depends on
having private thoughts and private conversations.

{% include image.html path="/assets/images/bitcoin/paynym.png" %}

[my.paynym.is/+gentlepond791](https://my.paynym.is/+gentlepond791):

    PM8TJNSKRf9cuoUD4s89taBDZAzQxx1d9Cwxghizmd68y3SzpsL5FnpAHxX7hbFr9a2ZhQiGRkhULHBETtVa74cWoF8CojHb5WWEnftsanQc8UUB7cbn

If you don't have the means to give directly, or don't want to, no worries. I
understand that very well. I'm quite selective with my support too! However,
if you have a couple of satoshis to spare, you will make my day, week, or even
month. To everyone who decided to throw me some sats, thank you. You have no
idea how much it means to me, and how motivating it is.

I finally found something that I *love* doing. My plan is to dedicate as much
time as I can to contribute to the Bitcoin ecosystem. How the business models
of the future will look like is anyone's guess. Maybe we will see a
renaissance of the old and proven methods developed in meatspace. Maybe we
will see entirely new paradigms, things that are only possible in the strange
world of cyberspace. Maybe we'll see a little bit of both.

In any case, for the first time in my life, I'm both excited and optimistic
about the future. I hope you are as well.

Sincerely, \\
Gigi

Commit message:

Update support section (#142)
* Add USD donation buttons

* Add sats buttons; move css to scss

* Move paynym to bottom

* Add a sentence

support.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Support
---


Dear Netizen, \\
the easiest way to support me is to [buy my book](https://amzn.to/2VXmQgp) -
although you could also read it for free on the web. The second easiest way is
to give directly.

{% include btcpay-usd-exp.html %}

Paying for immaterial stuff on the internet is a weird thing.
Everyone got used to the fact that everything is available for free, all the
time. I got used to that too, and I tend to close paywalls as fast and as
subconsciously as I pull my hand away from a hot stove.

I believe, however, that there is something which could work for everyone
involved. Something which has been working for hundreds, even thousands of
years: supporting what you like, just because. Call it tipping, call it
gratuity, call it busking.

{% include tippin-me-button.html %}

Monetizing information is a hard problem. Information wants to be free, and I
think we should not build cages - no matter how pretty - for the sake of
imprisoning information. This is one of the reasons why I don't intend to charge
for bits and bytes.

There is Patreon, of course, which is a great start. However, it suffers from
the same problem that all centralized platforms will inevitably suffer from:
power and control, which has the habit of resulting in interference and
censorship. I'm not a fan of interference. And I despise censorship.


Luckily, we now live in a world where Bitcoin exists. We can give directly, just
like in the olden days, where buskers performed for everyone, and a handful of
people were kind enough to pay a handful of coins to the artist, directly. I
hope that our society will return to this way of giving, at least in some
corners of the internet some of the time.

{% include btcpay-sats-fun.html %}

I don't track views on this site, or clicks, or anything else. I don't know how
many people will read this, and I don't want to know.  Knowledge is power - and
I have no interest in having this kind of power.

I believe that people should have the right to remain private. To speak
privately, read privately, watch privately, transact privately. To privately
consume and create any kind of information. After all, progress depends on
having private thoughts and private conversations.

[my.paynym.is/+gentlepond791](https://my.paynym.is/+gentlepond791):

    PM8TJNSKRf9cuoUD4s89taBDZAzQxx1d9Cwxghizmd68y3SzpsL5FnpAHxX7hbFr9a2ZhQiGRkhULHBETtVa74cWoF8CojHb5WWEnftsanQc8UUB7cbn

If you don't have the means to give directly, or don't want to, no worries. I
understand that very well. I'm quite selective with my support too! However,
if you have a couple of satoshis to spare, you will make my day, week, or even
month. To everyone who decided to throw me some sats, thank you. You have no
idea how much it means to me, and how motivating it is.

I finally found something that I *love* doing. My plan is to dedicate as much
time as I can to contribute to the Bitcoin ecosystem. How the business models
of the future will look like is anyone's guess. Maybe we will see a
renaissance of the old and proven methods developed in meatspace. Maybe we
will see entirely new paradigms, things that are only possible in the strange
world of cyberspace. Maybe we'll see a little bit of both.

In any case, for the first time in my life, I'm both excited and optimistic
about the future. I hope you are as well.

Sincerely, \\
Gigi

{% include image.html path="/assets/images/bitcoin/paynym.png" %}
