value.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Value for Value
subtitle: An Ethical Monetization Model for Information
image: /assets/images/bitcoin/value4value.png
---

If you find my work valuable, consider [giving value back][support] as you see
fit. All my work is released for free under an [open license][license] and
provided on a value for value basis.

<div class="action-buttons">
  <div class="button button-blue button-medium">
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-2&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=2.10">
      ⚡ $2.10
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-6&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=6.15">
      ⚡ $6.15
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-21&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=21">
      ⚡ $21
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-210&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=210">
      ⚡ $210
    </a>
    <a style="background-color: #46B00C;" href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD">
      Custom amount
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

For my long-form thoughts on value-for-value see the following:

- [Dear Netizen][netizen]
- [The Freedom of Value][busking]

**TL;DR** Give as much as you think it's worth. Thank you. 🙏🧡

![Bitcoin is Love](/assets/images/bitcoin/bitcoin-is-love.png)

If you can't part with your hard-earned sats, there
are [other ways to support me][support].

[license]: {{ '/license' | absolute_url }}
[support]: {{ '/support' | absolute_url }}
[busking]: {{ '/busking' | absolute_url }}
[netizen]: {{ '/dear-netizen' | absolute_url }}

Commit message:

feat(value): rewrite; link from /translations to /support

value.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Value for Value
subtitle: Time, Talent, and Treasure
image: /assets/images/bitcoin/value4value.png
---

If you find my work valuable, consider [giving value back][support] as you see
fit. All my work is released for free under an [open license][license] and
provided on a value for value basis.

<div class="action-buttons">
  <div class="button button-blue button-medium">
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-2&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=2.10">
      ⚡ $2.10
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-6&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=6.15">
      ⚡ $6.15
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-21&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=21">
      ⚡ $21
    </a>
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-210&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD&price=210">
      ⚡ $210
    </a>
    <a style="background-color: #46B00C;" href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD">
      Custom amount
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

### Time, Talent, Treasure

While treasure in the form of sats is very welcome, *time* and *talent* is very
much appreciated too!  If you can't part with your hard-earned sats, there are
[other ways to support me][support]. You can [remix or translate][translations]
my work, create an audio or video version, or simply take some time to send it
to a friend. You can also take some time to [review] my book, which helps to
feed the algorithmic gods of our present reality.

For my long-form thoughts on value-for-value see the following:

- [Dear Netizen][netizen]
- [The Freedom of Value][busking]

**TL;DR** Give as much as you think it's worth. Thank you. 🙏🧡

![Bitcoin is Love](/assets/images/bitcoin/bitcoin-is-love.png)


[license]: {{ '/license' | absolute_url }}
[support]: {{ '/support' | absolute_url }}
[busking]: {{ '/busking' | absolute_url }}
[translations]: {{ '/translations' | absolute_url }}
[netizen]: {{ '/dear-netizen' | absolute_url }}
[review]: https://21lessons.com/reviews/
