---
layout: post
title: "What Is 21ism?"
date: 2021-03-14
blocktime: 674473
image: /assets/images/btc21-kings.jpg
source: https://21ism.com/portfolio-item/gigi/
author: Gigi
category: bitcoin
tags:
 - Bitcoin
 - Writing
video: /assets/video/21ism.mp4
---

**Morpheus:**
I imagine that right now, you\'re feeling a bit like Alice. Hmm?
[Tumbling down the rabbit hole?](https://21lessons.com)

**Morpheus:**
I see it in your eyes. You have the look of a man who accepts what he sees
because he is expecting to wake up. Ironically, that\'s not far from the truth.
Do you believe in fate, Neo?

**Neo:**
Because I don\'t like the idea that I\'m not in control of my life.

**Morpheus:**
I know *exactly* what you mean. Let me tell you why you\'re here.
You\'re here because you know something. What you know you can\'t
explain, but you feel it. You\'ve felt it your entire life, that
there\'s something wrong with the world. You don\'t know what it is, but
it\'s there, like a splinter in your mind, driving you mad. It is this
feeling that has brought you to me. Do you know what I\'m talking
about?

---

I can only repeat what I've said before: All of this sounds crazy, and
yet it is happening. People are waking up. Across the globe sovereign
individuals are rising. There is an invisible revolution happening in
cyberspace, and most of the world is still blissfully unaware. It's
beautiful to see. You only have to know where to look.

The imagery used in memes and artworks in the Bitcoin space is no
accident: unplugging from the matrix, taking the orange pill, falling
down the rabbit hole. If you are reading this, you probably know what
I'm talking about. Many of us have this splinter in their minds that
Morpheus is describing. A feeling that things aren't right in this
world. However, without an exit, something that will unplug you from the
system, there isn't much you can do about it.

Just like Neo had to ingest a pill so he could be unplugged from the
Matrix, individuals across the world will have to take the orange pill
to find a way out. The ride is neither pleasant nor easy, but freedom
awaits at the other side. And freedom is where the journey begins. You
can take the pill, or you can stay in the fiat world. The choice is
yours.

I realize that it is impossible to make a choice if your perception
doesn't allow for it. You can't head to the door if you don't realize
that a door is there in the first place. Consequently, without seeing a
way out, the usual response ranges from frustration to depression to
nihilism. Without realizing what game is being played, it is impossible
to play it to your advantage. And once you see that the game is rigged,
it's incredibly hard to play along. Even worse, if you are forced to
play along anyway, it's borderline impossible to stay optimistic.

That is the beauty of art and design and music and writing: it can
change your perspective. And once your perspective changes -- everything
changes.

> When you change the way you look at things, the things you look at
> change.
>
> <cite>Wayne Dyer</cite>

If someone would have told me a couple of years ago that Magic Internet
Money will be the reason why I'm getting up early every day filled with
optimism and excitement and purpose -- I would have looked at you as if
you'd have taken crazy pills. Ironically, if that someone would have
been an early bitcoin adopter, that wouldn't have been far from the
truth.

Things are changing. We are about to enter a new era. Like Neo, people
are beginning to believe. Like Neo, people are fighting back. Like Neo,
people are exiting a system of oppression and slavery.

Thanks to countless writers and artists and meme lords it is now easier
than ever to understand the woes of the fiat system and the benefits
that Bitcoin has to offer. The revelation will come gradually at first,
and suddenly it will be obvious: Bitcoin is here to fix our money, and
in turn, fix the world.

> Do you know what I'm talking about?
>
> <cite>Morpheus</cite>

Of course, Morpheus is talking about the simulation they are stuck in.
But he might as well be talking about another, similar system. It too is
a system that 99% of the people are stuck in, and they don't even
realize it. Not The Matrix, but fiat money. While the jury is still out
whether we are living in a simulation or not, the case that our current
monetary system is terribly broken is proven beyond a reasonable doubt.

---

**Morpheus:**
Do you know what I\'m talking about?

**Morpheus:**
Do you want to know what it is?

**Morpheus:**
Fiat Money is everywhere. It is all around us. Even now, in this very
room. You can see it when you look out your window or when you turn on
your television. You can feel it when you go to work\... when you go to
church\... when you pay your taxes. It is the world that has been pulled
over your eyes to blind you from the truth.

**Morpheus:**
That you are a slave, Neo. Like everyone else, you were born into
bondage. Into a prison that you cannot taste or see or touch. A prison
for your mind.

---

Once you realize this truth -- that we are living in a system of broken
money and broken incentives -- there is no way of going back. Awoken
from the dream state of the rat race, you have no way of falling back
into slumber. Thanks to Bitcoin, you now know there is a way out. The
exit sign is dimly lit at first but it gets brighter with every step
towards it. Once you are in front of it, you wonder how you were ever
able to not see it in the first place: a glowing orange door, with two
large numerals engraved on it: twenty-one.

I believe that a bright orange future is upon us. We are at the dawn of
the Bitcoin renaissance, and it will be reflected in the families we
raise, the products we build, and the art we create. Sound money, sound
families, sound culture.

Are we the crazy ones to believe that a piece of automated machinery
revolving around the number 21 can fix so many of society's problems?

Maybe.

However, it is probably less crazy than what the majority of people (and
economists, for that matter) currently believe: that you can solve every
crisis with endless fiscal stimuli, corporate bailouts, infinite
quantitative easing, and other euphemisms for money printing. If you're
a hammer everything looks like a nail, and if you are the Fed or the ECB
everything looks like a liquidity crisis. If you believe that money
printing has no cost it is no wonder that you will try to solve every
problem by printing more money at all costs. After all, as long as you
are in charge of the printing press, you can easily afford it!

I truly believe that one of the most profound changes that
bitcoinization is bringing with it is a change on an individual level.
We see it over and over and over again. It might be because
self-sovereignty comes with a lot of responsibility, and taking this
responsibility begets a change of character. It might be the change in
time preference that adopting Bitcoin as a savings technology seems to
induce. The shift from a consumption-at-all-cost fiat culture to a
stack-sats-for-salvation bitcoin culture is a profound one for sure. It
might be that Bitcoin is something worth fighting for, a glimmer of hope
for generations to come, a rallying cry for individuals all over the
world.

Whatever it is, the side-effects of adopting Bitcoin seem to be
consistent. You will start to plan for the future. You will start to
take better care of your health. You will work towards making this
bright orange future a reality, whether it is by producing content,
educating others, starting a company, or simply stacking sats. You will
do your best to strengthen your body and mind, so you will be prepared
for what is to come: gradual bitcoinization and eventual
hyperbitcoinization.

Don't confuse my conviction with prophecy. Who knows what will happen.
Bitcoin has the propensity to humble you in more ways than one. The
world is a large and complex place, and Bitcoin is a large and complex
system.

I believe that we are living through bitcoinization right now and I'm
sure that it will be obvious in hindsight. Today, it is anything but.
Most people are still stuck in The Matrix. For now, there are only a few
of us who were crazy enough to unplug. Artists, writers, coders,
designers, entrepreneurs, musicians. Builders and tinkerers from all
walks of life. We are still at a stage in this unfolding process where
you have to be a bit crazy to believe that this orange coin will change
the world.

It won't happen on its own, and it won't happen directly. It will happen
because of you and me and thousands of other people like us. Bitcoin has
the power to change the individual, and the individual has the power to
change the world.

Keep creating. Write songs. Create great art. There aren't enough
artists in the world, and there sure as fuck aren't enough bitcoiner.
What is 21ism? Taking the orange pill. Making your way towards the exit.
Building towards a future that is better for all. Creativity. Optimism.
That's what it is, at least for me.
