---
layout: post
title: The Freedom of Value
subtitle: How Value-for-Value Fixes the Monetization of Information
description: 'How #Bitcoin and #Value4Value fixes the monetization of information.'
date: 2021-12-30
blocktime: 716448
image: "/assets/images/busking.jpg"
audio: "/assets/audio/busking.ogg"
redirect_from: "/busking"
author: Gigi
category: bitcoin
favorite: true
tags:
- Bitcoin
- Writing
- nostr
translations:
- language: Spanish
  url: https://armantheparman.com/la-libertad-de-valor/
  author: Tink
  author_url: https://twitter.com/bitcoinbabybee
- language: German
  url: https://aprycot.media/blog/der-wert-der-freiheit/
  author: Jan-Paul
  author_url: https://twitter.com/janpaul_f
- language: German
  url: https://telegra.ph/Der-Wert-der-Freiheit-von-Gigi-01-04
  author: DerGeier
  author_url: https://twitter.com/DerGeier21
- language: German (Discussion)
  url: https://pod.link/1601802816/episode/b5e283d48811cedef9b1de1e0e9a4789
  author: Nodesignal
  author_url: https://twitter.com/nodesignal
- language: Italian
  url: https://medium.com/@Bitcoin_ator/la-libert%C3%A0-del-valore-313025197cd1
  author: Bitcoin Ator
  author_url: https://twitter.com/Bitcoin_ator
- language: Russian
  url: https://arnitel.medium.com/%D1%81%D0%B2%D0%BE%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B0-%D1%86%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8-9aeb4aa1d041
  author: Ivan Telia
  author_url: https://twitter.com/Arnitel
- language: French
  url: https://fanismichalakis.fr/fr/posts/the-freedom-of-value/
  author: Fanis Michalakis
  author_url: https://twitter.com/FanisMichalakis
- language: English (reading & commentary)
  url: https://pod.link/1359544516/episode/13637ef7c4f181f95e0f901ed9573812
  author: Guy Swann
  author_url: https://twitter.com/TheGuySwann
updated_version: https://read.withboris.com/a/naddr1qq28g6r994n8yet9v3hk6tt0vckhvctvw4jsygrwg6zz9hahfftnsup23q3mnv5pdz46hpj4l2ktdpfu6rhpthhwjvpsgqqqw4rszalgc9
---

The internet has a problem. Few people know that this problem exists,
but hey, that\'s the nature of serious, non-obvious problems: they are
invisible until they aren\'t. The problem with the internet is that
information wants to be free. And if something wants to be free as in
freedom, given enough time, it will also be free as in beer.

Let me explain.

### Poisoning the Air

We consume untold amounts of data every day. Every second of every
minute, bits and bytes are streaming through the series of tubes that we
all know and love: *the internet*. We take it for granted, and most of
us take the current monetization model—as well as all the ills that
come along with it—for granted as well. We seldom stop and think about
the strange world of bits and bytes. How wonderful it all is, but also
how alien. How it already has transformed our lives, and how it will
continue to transform our future. Where do the zeroes and ones come
from? What makes it all work? And, most importantly: who is paying for
it?

The bits and bytes that are zipping through our fiber-optic cables are
as invisible as the air we breathe. That\'s not a terrible metaphor, now
that I think of it. As long as we have no trouble breathing, we don\'t
need to stop and inspect every single molecule we inhale. Similarly, as
long as we don\'t have too much trouble creating and consuming digital
content, we don\'t need to stop and inspect all the various parts that
make our attention economy work. 

Attention economy. What a fitting description. As we should all know by
now, the stuff we consume isn\'t free; we are paying dearly for it: with
our attention, among other things.

### Paying Attention

In the high-velocity world of today, to maximize profits, you have to
maximize attention. But it is a peculiar, shallow kind of attention. It
is not the focused kind of attention that deep thought and meaningful
conversations would require. I believe that this is, at least in part,
why many things are so broken. Why our societal discourse is so
fragmented, our politics so polarized, we so paralyzed, and our analysis
often as shallow as our desires. 

The attention economy has us neatly segregated into echo chambers of
personal truths. Ironically, the only truth worth pursuing in the
attention economy is how to keep the maximum amount of people maximally
outraged for the maximum amount of time. All while keeping participants
unaware that they are trapped in an algorithmic prison of their own
choosing.

### You Are The Product

The idiom \"if something is free, you are the product\" can\'t be
repeated often enough. For one reason or another, we expect most things
to be \"free\" online. Of course, there\'s no such thing as a free
lunch. In the case of online services, your data is harvested and sold
to the highest bidder, which is usually an advertisement- or government
agency. Or both.

Not only do all big data companies spy on you, but they will also use a
multitude of dark patterns and unethical practices to squeeze out every
last drop of data from your interactions. Whether it is the Facebook
Pixel, Google Analytics, or something else doesn\'t matter. You are
being tracked, surveilled, and cataloged. What you see, for how long, at
what times, how frequently, and what you\'ll see next is carefully
orchestrated by a profit-maximizing algorithm. Profit for the platform,
not for you.

Of course, the idea is usually that everyone profits: users, creators,
advertisers, and the platforms alike. However, the evolutionary
environment that is set up by said incentive structures will often
select for shallow, attention-grabbing, and sensationalist snippets. As
of this writing—block 716,025—the epitome of such an environment is
TikTok, a video-based dopamine machine that will show you the motion
picture equivalent of heroin mixed with crack cocaine. Hard drugs for
the mind, custom-tailored to your particular likings. A truly cursed
app. Unfortunately, most platforms of this nature are just different in
degree, not in kind.

### Allowed Opinion

\"It isn\'t so bad,\" we say to ourselves. \"Look at all the useful
information!\" we exclaim as we scroll through our feeds, inadvertently
feeding the machine that is feeding us dopamine hits in return.

But make no mistake: the companies in charge are not in the business of
feeding us useful (or truthful) information. They are in the business of
tricking us into feeding the machine.

How could it be otherwise? You are what you track, and you become what
you optimize for. From the platform\'s perspective, this is clicks, not
quality. At first, maximizing clicks and watch time might be an
innocuous thing. After all, you have to make money to survive. It\'s
just one ad. How bad can it get?

Unfortunately, the problems that come with it all are invisible at
first. Just like cancer is invisible to the smoker who just smoked his
first cigarette and liver cirrhosis is invisible to the drinker who just
had his first drink, deplatforming, censorship, polarization, and
manipulation of public opinion are invisible to the prosumer who just
saw his first ad in a walled-garden ecosystem. We can probably agree
that we are past the first inning when it comes to these issues.
Censorship is the norm, deplatforming is cheered on, polarization is at
an all-time high, and public opinion is manipulated manually and
algorithmically like never before.

The consensus is that you are too stupid to know what is good for you
and your public opinion is too outrageous to be voiced publicly. Even
worse, it shouldn\'t be your opinion in the first place. \"Here is why
you\'re wrong. Here is a source pointing to an allowed opinion. Here are
some experts that agree with us. Our smart and helpful algorithms did
all the thinking for you and they are never wrong. Neither are the
experts.\"

This is the world we are already living in. You are not allowed to speak
freely. You are not allowed to think freely. You are not allowed to
express yourself freely. Your picture is offensive; thus, it has to be
removed. Your meme is too close to the truth or too criminally funny;
thus, we have to put you in Twitter jail for a week or two. You are
saying something that we don\'t agree with; thus, we have to ban you for
life—even if you are a [sitting
president](https://web.archive.org/web/20211223015539/https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/twitter-permanently-bans-president-donald-trump-n1253588),
mind you. You have said the wrong word in a video or played a
copyrighted song in the background; thus, we have to take away your
income. You have posted a picture of yourself without a mask; thus,
we\'ll have to ban you and report you to the authorities.[^irony]

The fact that the sentence above is not purely in the realm of dystopian
science fiction anymore should have everyone worried. Removed from
cyberspace for wanting to breathe free. Strange times.

[^irony]: The fact that I decided to include the sentence about masks (and, in some way, my opinion on the matter) in this paragraph will probably reduce the potential audience who will share this significantly. If I were to optimize for \"number of people who will read this,\" removing it would be the smart choice. The irony is not lost on me.

### Evolutionary Pressure

How did it come to this? If I were forced to give a short answer, I
would give the following: We moved from protocols to platforms, and
platforms are only as good as their incentives.

The incentive structure of the platforms we inhabit is the evolutionary
environment that dictates survival. Everything that wants to survive has
to align with it.

Of course, this is true in all areas of business. Pick print magazines,
for example. For very human evolutionary reasons, if your magazine
doesn\'t sport a beautiful female face on the front cover, it won\'t be
bought as much as those who do. Thus, it won\'t be able to replicate
itself and, consequently, will die. Similarly, if your online news
outlet does not generate enough ad revenue, it will fail to replicate
and die. This is why every magazine has a beautiful female face on the
cover. And this is why every ad-based online news outlet devolves into
clickbait. 

{% include image.html name="faces.png" caption="One of these faces is not like the others." %}

Similarly, this is why feed-based recommendation engines devolve into
slot machines for your dopamine receptors. The longer you stay glued to
your screen, the more ads you will see, the more revenue will be
generated for the platform. This is also why most YouTube channels
devolve into 7-15 minute snippets with thumbnails that portray the face
of someone who  [just stepped on a piece of
Legos](https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1360168246545166337?s=20).
Short enough to convince you to watch it, long enough to make you forget
what video you wanted to watch in the first place. Like rats pushing
buttons in hyper-personalized Skinner boxes, we are conditioned into
addiction cycles to maximize shareholder profits.

### Maximizing Profits

Platforms are companies, and companies are incentivized to maximize
shareholder profits. There is nothing wrong with profits, and there is
nothing wrong with shareholders. However, I believe that the information
revolution we find ourselves in has split the evolutionary landscape
into two. Let\'s call these landscapes \"broad\" and \"narrow.\"

To maximize profits via broad advertisements, controversies and extreme
opinions have to be minimized. Thus, just by catering to the lowest
common denominator, politics and censorship immediately enter the
picture. Conversely, if profits are made via narrow, targeted
advertisements, controversies and extreme opinions have to be maximized.
Thus, just by showing different pieces of information to different
sub-groups, polarization and fragmentation are continually increased.

{% include image.html name="polarization.png" caption="Mainstream Cohesion vs. Algorithmic Division." %}

These two extremes are two sides of the same coin. It might seem like it
is Cable TV vs. the algorithmic news feed, but it actually is two
different approaches pursuing the same goal: to keep as many people
glued to the screen, so they watch more advertisements. The first is a
sedative, the second a stimulant.

Granted, the above characterization might be an exaggeration, but the
problem remains: if we aren\'t paying for something directly, we will be
paying for it indirectly, one way or another. Always.

The point is the following: free speech platforms can not exist. Only
free speech protocols can exist. If someone can control what is being
said, someone will control what is being said. If you can monitor,
filter, and censor content, you will monitor, filter, and censor
content. 

All platforms will run into this problem, no matter how pristine their
intentions. Even if you position yourself as a free speech platform at
first, you will be forced to step in and censor in the long run. After
all, if you can be squashed by the state for content you host or
transmit, you will be squashed by the state for content you host or
transmit.

### Self-Censorship

However, long before state censorship will rear its ugly head, the
chilling effect of self-censorship will be felt. If others are
deplatformed and demonetized for voicing certain opinions, most people
will be very careful to voice said opinions. Consciously and
subconsciously, we slowly silence ourselves. 

When it comes to self-censorship, advertisements have a role to play
too.

After all, you wouldn\'t bite the hand that feeds you, would you? In the
worst case, advertisers and executives will tell you what can be said
and what is off-limits. They will tell you what opinions are inside the
Overton window and which ones are outside of it. And if they don\'t, you
will make an educated guess and adjust what you say accordingly.

### A Problem and a Paradox

Back to the original problem: why can\'t we sell information like a
regular good? Why does the simplistic approach—putting content behind
a paywall—produce such bad results? I believe there are two reasons,
which I will call the \"MTX problem\" and the \"DRM paradox.\"

The MTX problem, with MTX being short for \"mental transaction,\" refers
to the problem of irreducible mental transaction costs inherent to every
transaction. Every time you hit a paywall, you have to make a conscious
decision: \"Do I want to pay for that?\" 

As Szabo convincingly argues, most of the time, especially if the cost
is tiny, the answer will be no. This is not for any technical reason but
for *psychological* reasons. It turns out that the hassle of figuring
out whether this transaction is worth it or not—a process that is
happening in your head—is simply too much. If you have to think about
a micro-purchase, the chance that you will make said purchase diminishes
drastically. This is why flat rates and subscriptions are king: you only
have to think about them once.

For the smallest of micro-transactions, this is even true from a
strictly economic standpoint. Using an hourly wage of \$20 USD,
thinking, \"Is this worth 21 sats?\" for two seconds will cost you a
little over 1¢, which is more than the price of the microtransaction in
question.[^moscow] It is unfeasible, both psychologically and economically.
This, in a nutshell, is the MTX problem.

[^moscow]: Moscow time 21:09 @ 716,411.

But this isn\'t the only thing that is plaguing the monetization of
digital content. As mentioned above, there is also the DRM paradox.

DRM, short for \"digital rights management,\" is a futile effort that
tries to prevent information from being copied. It should go without
saying that non-copyable information is an oxymoron, but, alas, in the
age of NFTs and plenty of other nonsense, I\'m afraid this needs to be
spelled out explicitly. So, let me spell it out for you: You can not
create information that can\'t be copied. Period. Or, in the words of
Bruce Schneier: \"trying to make digital files uncopyable is like trying
to make water not wet.\"

The nature of information is such that if it can be read, it can also be
copied—with perfect fidelity. No amount of trickery or artificial
restrictions will change this fact. This is why digital artifacts such
as movies and music will always be available for free. It is trivial for
someone who has access to said artifacts to copy said artifact—at
near-zero marginal cost, mind you—and make it accessible to others.
Thus, given enough time and popularity, every movie, every song, and
every document will be available to the general public for free. The
nature of information does not allow for another outcome. Hence the
saying: *information wants to be free*.

Although trying to create something that can\'t exist—information that
can\'t be copied—is paradoxical in itself, this isn\'t what I mean by
the DRM paradox. What I mean is something more hilarious. It is again
psychological, not technical in nature. The paradox is this: content
will only stay behind a paywall if it is shitty. If it\'s good, someone
will set it free.

We all know this. If an article is actually worth reading, someone who
is behind the paywall will screenshot it and post it to social media. If
the movie is worth watching, it will be available on various websites
that have pirate ships as their logos. If the song is worth listening
to, it will be available on streaming sites for free. It is only the
terrible articles, the most obscure movies, and the songs that make your
ears bleed that stay locked behind paywalls. Hence, the paradox: content
will only stay locked behind paywalls if it sucks. If it\'s good, it
will be set free.

Personally, I believe that the MTX problem is a bigger deal than the DRM
paradox. The traditional solution to the MTX problem is the subscription
model, à la Netflix, Spotify, Amazon, and so on. The DRM paradox still
remains, but it turns out that this is not an issue if you make the
\"legitimate\" access to information convenient enough.

The opportunity cost of downloading, storing, maintaining, and curating
a private collection of songs is simply too high for most people. The
more convenient solution is to pay for the damn Spotify subscription.

That being said, we can already see one of the problems inherent in the
subscription model. The following comic describes it well:

{% include image.html name="piracy.webp" caption="Comic by /u/Hoppy_Doodle" %}

The proliferation of streaming platforms forces you to get a Netflix
subscription, an Amazon Prime subscription, a Hulu subscription, a
Disney Plus subscription, a YouTube Premium subscription, and so on. And
that was just streaming video. The same subscription zoo exists for
music, books, games, newsletters, blog posts, etc.

So, what is the solution?

### Accept the Nature of Information

The solution begins with acceptance. Selling digital content in the
traditional, transactional way doesn\'t work, or at least doesn\'t work
very well. A transaction involving a digital photograph of an apple is
very different than a transaction involving a physical apple. 

George Bernard Shaw said it best: \"If you have an apple and I have an
apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have
one apple. But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange
these ideas, then each of us will have two ideas.\"

Because digital information behaves like an idea, there is no reason to
make it artificially scarce. This is not only true philosophically,
but *technically*, too. Computers are copying machines. Always have
been, always will be. The only way to move information from one machine
to another is to copy it. This alone should make the futility of
treating information as physical objects blatantly obvious.

When it comes to monetizing information on the open web, we have to
align our ways of thinking with the nature of information. As outlined
above, information is non-scarce, easily copied, easily modified, and
wants to be free.

I believe that the right monetization model has to respect these values
and needs to have similar properties. It has to be open, transparent,
extensible, and, last but not least, completely voluntary. 

This model has a name: *value-for-value.*

### Revivifying Busking

The idea is simple but sounds radical: you provide your content for
free, for everyone, without access restrictions. If people enjoy it, if
people get *value* out of it, you make it easy for people to give value
back.

It might sound outrageous in this day and age, but this model has worked
for thousands of years. It is the model of street performers, the model
of buskers, the model of voluntary giving. However, in cyberspace, we
don\'t run into the physical limitations of traditional busking. Digital
content scales in ways that performances in meatspace never will. 

The value-for-value model flips the traditional payment model on its
head. Traditionally, enjoyment follows payment. In the value-for-value
approach, payment follows enjoyment—voluntarily.

You are free to listen to the street musician and walk on, but—and
this is something that the audience intuitively knows—if you want the
music to continue, you should throw a couple of coins into the hat.

<div class="action-buttons">
  <div class="button button-blue button-medium">
    <a href="https://ts.dergigi.com/api/v1/invoices?storeId=3WkiYEG5DaQv7Ak5M2UjUi1pe5FFTPyNF1yAE9CVLNJn&orderId=V4V-busking&checkoutDesc=Value+for+Value%3A+Give+as+much+as+it+is+worth+to+you.&currency=USD">
      🎩⚡ Give Value Back
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

One beautiful thing about this model is that it re-aligns incentives.
You are not trying to maximize clicks, or view time, or any other of the
countless metrics. You will want to provide value for your audience, and
that\'s it. And if your audience got value out of it, a certain
percentage will give back. All you have to do is ask.

### A Valuable Alternative

We are at the very beginning of this monumental shift. My hope is that
the value-for-value model will continue to emerge as a viable
alternative---an alternative to advertisements, censorship,
deplatforming, and demonetization.

The value-for-value model removes the \"they\" from the equation. They
filter, they censor, they demonetize, they deplatform. It doesn\'t even
matter who \"they\" are. If a \"they\" exists, they will find a way to
fuck it up.

Value-for-value removes \"they,\" and puts you in charge. You are the
ruler in the kingdom of one, solely responsible for your thoughts and
your speech. If we want to have liberation (and salvation) in
cyberspace, we need to put the individual in charge once more. As
always, freedom and independence
require [responsibility](https://dergigi.com/2021/03/14/the-responsibility-of-adopting-bitcoin/).

In the best of all worlds, creators are incentivized to do nothing but
create. Catering only to themselves and those who are interested in
their creations. No intermediaries. Directly, person-to-person,
value-for-value.

### What Lies Ahead

Granted, as of today, it isn\'t exactly easy to self-host your
infrastructure. It is intimidating to run your own node in order to
receive payments in a self-sovereign manner. But, not only will it get
easier, increasingly, it will be necessary.

In addition to making it all easier, we need to be cognisant of the MTX
problem outlined above. Every step that manages to reduce the mental
transaction costs in the value-for-value ecosystem is a step in the
right direction.

The value capability of [Podcasting 2.0](https://podcastindex.org/) is
such a step. It enables and automates payments by the minute, without
any additional interaction required by the user. Once you are set up,
your wallet will make payments automatically.

I believe that further iterations of this idea can be integrated into
all media types, whether it be audio, video, images, the written word,
and so on. I believe that we are close to the protocol version of
Patreon: all the benefits of reducing the mental transaction costs to
zero, without the friction and the censorship inherent in a
platform-based solution. Whether it will come in the form
of [BOLT12](http://bolt12.org/) recurring payments or something else
entirely is yet to be seen. I am confident, however, that it will come
in time.

### Conclusion {#Conclusion}

Not only is our fiat money broken, but the monetization model of the
internet is broken too. The advertisement-based platforms of this day
and age optimize for engagement via division and polarization, using
dark patterns and addiction by design. It won\'t be easy to break out of
the compulsion loops that are set up for us, but thanks to the
self-sovereign tech stack that is currently emerging, there is a viable
alternative: the value-for-value model.

The \"busking\" monetization model has worked for many centuries in the
past, and thanks to Bitcoin and the Lightning Network, I am confident
that it will work for centuries into the future. We are almost there. We
just need to figure out how to position the hat correctly on the ground
and where the best places in town are to perform, so to speak.

Value-for-value does away with the DRM paradox in its entirety and -
with the right amount of automation and sensible defaults—will solve
the MTX problem too. If we get this right, we might be able to free
ourselves from the evolutionary survival-of-the-richest environment of
platforms, allowing ourselves to step into the quasi-immortal realm of
protocols.

There is [much to be explored][thread], many tools to be built, and plenty of
pre-conceived notions to be shattered. There is a seismic shift
happening right in front of our eyes, and I\'m looking forward to riding
the waves with all of you. Onwards!

[thread]: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1470520355710189571?s=20

---

### Further Resources {#Further-Resources}

-   [Podcast Index](https://podcastindex.org/) and  [Podcasting
    2.0](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/920666)
-   How to get started: [value4value.io](http://value4value.io/)

### Further Reading {#Further-Reading}

-   [Micropayments and Mental Transaction
    Costs](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/static/docs/micropayments-and-mental-transaction-costs.pdf) by
    Nick Szabo
-   [The Mental Accounting Barrier to
    Micropayments](https://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/rob/Courses/InformationInSpeech/CDROM/Literature/LOTwinterschool2006/szabo.best.vwh.net/micropayments.html) by
    Nick Szabo
-   [How Social Media Hacks Our
    Brains](https://www.humanetech.com/brain-science) by the Center for
    Humane Technology
-   [Compulsion Loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compulsion_loop),
    Wikipedia
-   [DRM - Defective by
    Design](https://www.defectivebydesign.org/about_defectivebydesign) by
    the Free Software Foundation
-   [Addiction by
    Design](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13748038-addiction-by-design) by
    Natasha Dow Schüll

---

<small>Original cover image cc-by-sa [Gonzalez85](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:BrenoFernandesBusking.jpg).</small>
