collections/_threads/2022-11-25-attention.md, before:

---
layout: thread
title: "Attention is a Terrible Currency"
date: 2022-11-25
blocktime: 738614
source: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1596126980402864131
redirect_from: attention
archive: https://archive.ph/plORe
author: Gigi
category: bitcoin
tags:
 - Bitcoin
 - Writing
---

The internet never had a native currency, so it had to use a surrogate:
attention.

Due to the lack of a digital native money, we had to use credit (IOUs)
to send money electronically. Fraud & chargebacks made micropayments
impossible.

Two models evolved:

1. _\"You are the product\"_, which uses attention & user data as a currency
2. _\"Subscription hell\"_, which uses credit IOUs, which requires full control & KYC, and doesn\'t allow for micropayments (it\'s always \~\$5 or more, nothing else would be profitable)

You can monetize some services outright: storage and compute are easy
examples, because they are scarce. JPGs, however, are not scarce. They
can be reproduced at zero marginal cost.

Because reproduction is free, a digital image or a piece of text can\'t
have a market price. It can\'t emerge, because supply is infinite. I can
crush the paywall and distribute it for free. We have to disconnect
price from value, and we have to think about both differently.

**Bitcoin ⚡ fixes this.**

I believe that, in a value-enabled web---a web that does
facilitate the free flow of payments, in addition to the free flow of
data---new models will emerge that are not bound to selling eyeballs and
outrage. We should use money as money, not attention.

Of course, this is already happening. The obvious examples are:

- _[Podcasting 2.0](https://podcastindex.org)_, lead by the Podcast Index,[^fn-pis] which allows for value-enabled podcasts.[^fn-v4v]
- _[Stacker News](https://stacker.news/)_, which uses a slightly different approach: every action has monetary value attached to it, making bots uneconomical.

[^fn-pis]: Join [podcastindex.social](https://podcastindex.social) and chime in!

[^fn-v4v]: Visit [value4value.info](https://value4value.info/) to learn more.

The thing about monetary value is that it is human action distilled.
Many signals can be faked or auto-generated, be it views, downloads,
comments, and even content and profiles. In other words: talk is cheap.
Sats are not.

This is Day 2 for the Internet. \\
It\'s still Day 1 for Bitcoin. \\
\...and Day 0 for the Value-Enabled Web.

A lot of people are trying to solve the conundrum the internet found
itself in. [Elon](https://twitter.com/elonmusk) wants to fix it.
[Jack](https://twitter.com/jack)
understands these problems deeply and has the right ideas when it comes
to fixing them.

[Saylor](https://twitter.com/saylor) understands that cash money brings real
consequences and real cost to cyberspace,[^fn-cost] which is one piece of the
puzzle. [Daniel](https://twitter.com/csuwildcat) understands that we have to get the identity
piece right, without having to rely on trusted third parties.

[^fn-cost]: Listen to [Saylor on the Bitcoin Matrix](https://pod.link/1534519469/episode/54931b6a4142335fdc84ce249b59469a). I'd recommend you [listen on Breez](https://pod.link/1632017958/episode/4140110ced3524d74b9da3c914ddbb16) or Fountain.

Central control doesn\'t fix this. A new platform doesn\'t fix this.
Protocols do. In addition to using the right protocols, we have to fix
the incentives. And for that we have to fix the money.

**Bitcoin is fixed money.**

Digitally native money---money that is not credit---is a big deal. It is
a big deal because infinite velocity of money is a big deal, and the
removal of counterparty risk is a big deal. There is a reason why cash
is king.

And when it comes to monies,
Bitcoin
is the king of kings.

---

Commit message:

fix(attention): add Snowden quote

collections/_threads/2022-11-25-attention.md, after:

---
layout: thread
title: "Attention is a Terrible Currency"
date: 2022-11-25
blocktime: 738614
source: https://twitter.com/dergigi/status/1596126980402864131
redirect_from: attention
archive: https://archive.ph/plORe
author: Gigi
category: bitcoin
tags:
 - Bitcoin
 - Writing
---

The internet never had a native currency, so it had to use a surrogate:
attention.

Due to the lack of a digital native money, we had to use credit (IOUs)
to send money electronically. Fraud & chargebacks made micropayments
impossible.

Two models evolved:

1. _\"You are the product\"_, which uses attention & user data as a currency
2. _\"Subscription hell\"_, which uses credit IOUs, which requires full control & KYC, and doesn\'t allow for micropayments (it\'s always \~\$5 or more, nothing else would be profitable)

You can monetize some services outright: storage and compute are easy
examples, because they are scarce. JPGs, however, are not scarce. They
can be reproduced at zero marginal cost.

Because reproduction is free, a digital image or a piece of text can\'t
have a market price. It can\'t emerge, because supply is infinite. I can
crush the paywall and distribute it for free. We have to disconnect
price from value, and we have to think about both differently.

**Bitcoin ⚡ fixes this.**

I believe that, in a value-enabled web---a web that does
facilitate the free flow of payments, in addition to the free flow of
data---new models will emerge that are not bound to selling eyeballs and
outrage. We should use money as money, not attention.

Of course, this is already happening. The obvious examples are:

- _[Podcasting 2.0](https://podcastindex.org)_, lead by the Podcast Index,[^fn-pis] which allows for value-enabled podcasts.[^fn-v4v]
- _[Stacker News](https://stacker.news/)_, which uses a slightly different approach: every action has monetary value attached to it, making bots uneconomical.

[^fn-pis]: Join [podcastindex.social](https://podcastindex.social) and chime in!

[^fn-v4v]: Visit [value4value.info](https://value4value.info/) to learn more.

The thing about monetary value is that it is human action distilled.
Many signals can be faked or auto-generated, be it views, downloads,
comments, and even content and profiles. In other words: talk is cheap.
Sats are not.

This is Day 2 for the Internet. \\
It\'s still Day 1 for Bitcoin. \\
\...and Day 0 for the Value-Enabled Web.

A lot of people are trying to solve the conundrum the internet found
itself in. [Elon](https://twitter.com/elonmusk) wants to fix it.
[Jack](https://twitter.com/jack)
understands these problems deeply and has the right ideas when it comes
to fixing them.

[Saylor](https://twitter.com/saylor) understands that cash money brings real
consequences and real cost to cyberspace,[^fn-cost] which is one piece of the
puzzle. [Daniel](https://twitter.com/csuwildcat) understands that we have to get the identity
piece right, without having to rely on trusted third parties.

[^fn-cost]: Listen to [Saylor on the Bitcoin Matrix](https://pod.link/1534519469/episode/54931b6a4142335fdc84ce249b59469a). I'd recommend you [listen on Breez](https://pod.link/1632017958/episode/4140110ced3524d74b9da3c914ddbb16) or Fountain.

[Snowden](https://twitter.com/Snowden/) understands these problems and is on the right track, and like him, I am optimistic that we will be able to fix them.

> I'm thankful for the Internet.
>
> One day it will be free and open, edge to edge.
>
> <cite>[Edward Snowden](https://twitter.com/Snowden/status/1595802834611900416)</cite>

Central control doesn\'t fix this. A new platform doesn\'t fix this.
Protocols do. In addition to using the right protocols, we have to fix
the incentives. And for that we have to fix the money.

**Bitcoin is fixed money.**

Digitally native money---money that is not credit---is a big deal. It is
a big deal because infinite velocity of money is a big deal, and the
removal of counterparty risk is a big deal. There is a reason why cash
is king.

And when it comes to monies,
Bitcoin
is the king of kings.

---
