scripts/README.md, before:

# Scripts

Utility scripts for managing the site.

## Publishing to Nostr

The `publishtonostr.sh` script converts Jekyll blog posts to [NIP-23](https://nips.nostr.com/23) long-form content (kind 30023) and publishes them to Nostr.

### Prerequisites

```bash
# macOS
brew install nak jq

# Verify ruby is available (pre-installed on macOS)
ruby --version
```

### Usage

**Option 1: Use a .env file (recommended)**

Create a `scripts/.env` file with your secret key:
```bash
NOSTR_SECRET_KEY=nsec1...
RELAYS="wss://relay.dergigi.com wss://relay.damus.io wss://nos.lol"
```

Then run the script:
```bash
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
```

**Option 2: Set environment variables directly**

```bash
export NOSTR_SECRET_KEY="nsec1..."
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
```

**Generate JSON only (no publish):**
```bash
# Without NOSTR_SECRET_KEY set, script only generates JSON
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
# Output: tmp/nostr-events/2020-06-23-dare.json
```

**Batch process all posts:**
```bash
# With .env file configured, simply:
find collections/_posts -name '*.markdown' -print0 | xargs -0 -n1 scripts/publishtonostr.sh
```

### How it works

The script:
1. Parses Jekyll front matter (`title`, `description`, `image`, `tags`, `date`)
2. Constructs a NIP-23 kind:30023 event with proper metadata tags
3. Uses the kebab-case slug as the `d` tag for edit tracking
4. Strips HTML tags and replaces `<cite>` with em-dashes
5. Saves JSON to `tmp/nostr-events/` for review
6. Publishes to Nostr with `--confirm` (requires manual approval)

See [NIP-23](https://nips.nostr.com/23) for the long-form content specification.

### Environment Variables

- `NOSTR_SECRET_KEY` - Your nostr secret key (nsec1..., hex, or bunker://...). If unset, script only generates JSON without publishing.
- `RELAYS` - Space-separated relay URLs (optional; defaults to nak's configured relays)
- `OUT_DIR` - Directory for JSON events (default: tmp/nostr-events)

Commit message:

feat(publishtonostr): strip unprocessed Jekyll includes
- Add include stripping step after processing way/, image.html, and video.html includes
- Removes site-specific includes like v4v-21w.html from Nostr content
- Update README.md to document include processing behavior

scripts/README.md, after:

# Scripts

Utility scripts for managing the site.

## Publishing to Nostr

The `publishtonostr.sh` script converts Jekyll blog posts to [NIP-23](https://nips.nostr.com/23) long-form content (kind 30023) and publishes them to Nostr.

### Prerequisites

```bash
# macOS
brew install nak jq

# Verify ruby is available (pre-installed on macOS)
ruby --version
```

### Usage

**Option 1: Use a .env file (recommended)**

Create a `scripts/.env` file with your secret key:
```bash
NOSTR_SECRET_KEY=nsec1...
RELAYS="wss://relay.dergigi.com wss://relay.damus.io wss://nos.lol"
```

Then run the script:
```bash
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
```

**Option 2: Set environment variables directly**

```bash
export NOSTR_SECRET_KEY="nsec1..."
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
```

**Generate JSON only (no publish):**
```bash
# Without NOSTR_SECRET_KEY set, script only generates JSON
scripts/publishtonostr.sh collections/_posts/2020-06-23-dare.markdown
# Output: tmp/nostr-events/2020-06-23-dare.json
```

**Batch process all posts:**
```bash
# With .env file configured, simply:
find collections/_posts -name '*.markdown' -print0 | xargs -0 -n1 scripts/publishtonostr.sh
```

### How it works

The script:
1. Parses Jekyll front matter (`title`, `description`, `image`, `tags`, `date`)
2. Processes Jekyll includes:
   - `way/N.md` includes are inlined (content is inserted)
   - `image.html` includes are converted to Markdown image syntax
   - `video.html` includes are converted to Markdown image syntax
   - All other includes (e.g., `v4v-21w.html`) are stripped
3. Converts relative URLs to absolute URLs
4. Constructs a NIP-23 kind:30023 event with proper metadata tags
5. Uses the kebab-case slug as the `d` tag for edit tracking
6. Strips HTML tags and replaces `<cite>` with em-dashes
7. Saves JSON to `tmp/nostr-events/` for review
8. Publishes to Nostr with `--confirm` (requires manual approval)

See [NIP-23](https://nips.nostr.com/23) for the long-form content specification.

### Environment Variables

- `NOSTR_SECRET_KEY` - Your nostr secret key (nsec1..., hex, or bunker://...). If unset, script only generates JSON without publishing.
- `RELAYS` - Space-separated relay URLs (optional; defaults to nak's configured relays)
- `OUT_DIR` - Directory for JSON events (default: tmp/nostr-events)
