bitcoin/interviews.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Interviews
description: Interviews with Gigi and various podcast appearances
redirect_from: interviews
---

Finding the time to read long articles and books can be challenging, which is why I love
podcasts and recorded conversations of all kinds. If you do too, here are some conversations
and [talks](#talks) where I share my thoughts about [Bitcoin][bitcoin].

  - **2020-06-22** - [Vivek #12][vivek] on Bitcoin in 1000 years from now, hosted by Vivek (also on [Spotify][vivek-spotify])
  - **2020-06-15** - [ABNP #143][mrpseu] on time, the oracle problem, OpSec, identity, and self-sovereignty, hosted by Mr. Pseu
  - **2020-05-22** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib3] with Juan and Guy, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib3-yt])
  - **2020-05-20** - [Swan Signal #11][ss11] with Knut, Brekkie, and Cory, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss11-yt])

  ---

  - **2020-05-11** - [Celebrating the Third Bitcoin Halving][define-your-moon]: Define your Moon with BitcoinTina and David Bailey hosted by Bitcoin Magazine
  - **2020-05-11** - [Panel Discussion][vob-panel] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference with Knut, Nik, Conner, Katie, and Max, hosted by John Vallis
  - **2020-04-15** - [Al's Lacrosse][als] on 21 Lessons, biology, complexity theatre, and PoW, hosted by Dirtbag Al
  - **2020-04-09** - [Once Bitten #26][once-bitten26] on privacy and the difference between the legacy and the Bitcoin world, hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-03-14** - [Swan Signal #1][ss1] with Guy, Yan, Hass, John, and Cory on the current state of the world and Bitcoin, hosted by Brady
  - **2020-03-04** - [Fun With Bitcoin #70][fwb70] on the Shitcoin Trap and why Bitcoin is superior, hosted by Coinicarus
  - **2020-02-12** - [Once Bitten #6][once-bitten6] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-01-24** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib2] with Mauricio Di Bartolomeo and David Bennett, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib2-youtube])
  - **2020-01-20** - [Total Bitcoin #63][keyvan63] on Bitcoin's Adoption Cycles, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan63-yt])
  - **2020-01-10** - [Stephan Livera Podcast #140][slp140] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity, hosted by Stephan Livera
  - **2019-10-13** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #31][bec31] on Bitcoin as a Religion and other cosmic thoughts, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-10-11** - [Citizen Bitcoin #54][cb54] on the Circularity of the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole, hosted by Brady  
  - **2019-09-04** - [Rapid Fire #6][rf6-discussion] on Narratives, Bitcoin Monks, Bitcoin Zen, and much more, hosted by John Vallis ([discussion][rf6-discussion], [rapid fire][rf6-fire])
  - **2019-08-22** - [CryptoChat #20][cryptochat20] on the Bitcoin Organism with Brandon Quittem, hosted by Guy Swann
  - **2019-08-11** - [DYKC #47][dykc47] on Bitcoin as a living organism, the political nature of an apolitical protocol, and more; hosted by Dustin
  - **2019-07-30** - [The Bitcoin Takeover S3E6][takeover] on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism, politics, Bitcoin as pure information, and many other topics, hosted by Vlad Costea (also on [youtube][takeover-youtube])
  - **2019-07-01** - [Fun with Crypto #30][fwc30] on Bitcoin as an exponential technology
  - **2019-06-28** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib] with BTC Sessions and Steve Barbour, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib-youtube])
  - **2019-06-24** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #22][bec22] on the BTC paradigm shift, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-06-23** - [Discussion on privacy][keyvan-privacy] with Matt Odell and Aleksandar Svetski, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-privacy-yt])
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #10][turm10] on Technology, Chapter 3
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #9][turm9] on Economics, Chapter 2
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #8][turm8] on Philosophy, Chapter 1
  - **2019-06-06** - [POV Crypto #56][pov56] on Bitcoin's Gravity, Monetary Maximalism, Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work with Christian and David
  - **2019-05-23** - [Citizen Bitcoin #38][cb38] on 21lessons.com with Brady
  - **2019-05-08** - [Contrarian Island #7][ci7] on Bitcoin's Gravity
  - **2019-04-21** - [German interview][keyvan-german] with Keyvan (also on [youtube][keyvan-german])
  - **2019-04-19** - [English interview][keyvan-english] with Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-english])

Want to talk? Feel free to [reach out to me][contact].

---

# Talks

  - **2020-06-02** - [Keynote: The Bitcoin Journey][vob-bitcoin-journey] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference

[vob-bitcoin-journey]: https://youtu.be/qVuFX0LkNDQ

[keyvan-german]: https://youtu.be/ShbOXJ0Qj2c
[keyvan-english]: https://youtu.be/RrW2yhEY39Y
[keyvan-pod-de]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/For-German-speaking-Listeners-Deutsch-sprachiges-Interview-mit-dem-Bitcoiner-Gigi-aufgenommen-am-21--April--2019-e3ss2f
[keyvan-pod-en]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/Interview-with-Gigi--Bitcoiner--Bitcoin-e3r65v
[ci7]: http://contrarianisland.buzzsprout.com/265373/1106735-contrarian-island-7-gigi-bitcoin-s-gravity
[cb38]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-21-lessons-from-down-the-bitcoin
[pov56]: https://medium.com/@TrustlessState/the-gravity-of-monetary-maximalism-cf968dd23268
[turm8]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/8
[turm9]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/9
[turm10]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/10
[keyvan-privacy]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TheTotalConnector11-Interview-with-Aleks-Svetski--Gigi--and-Matt-Odell-on-Bitcoin-e4dq7a
[keyvan-privacy-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M58cq0bRwng
[bec22]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/06/24/paradigm-shift-with-gigi-bec022/
[twib]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--6-28-2019--Future-of-Altcoins--Gold--BTC-mining--21-Lessons--Coinbase-outage-e4fpnd
[twib-youtube]: https://youtu.be/VxG57es11kM
[fwc30]: http://funwithcrypto.libsyn.com/interviewdiscussion-with-dergigi
[takeover]: https://bitcoin-takeover.com/s3-e6-gigi-on-bitcoin-as-a-living-organism/
[takeover-youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtmW4oIFs-w
[dykc47]: http://didyouknowcrypto.com/ep47/
[cryptochat20]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoChat_020---ITS-ALIVE---Brandon-Quittem--Der-Gigi-on-the-Bitcoin-Organism-e522gb
[rf6-discussion]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Further-Discussion-Gigi-e57fdh
[rf6-fire]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Gigi-Down-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole-e57f8j
[cb54]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-rabbit-hole-revelations
[bec31]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/10/13/bitcoin-lives-with-gigi-bec031/
[slp140]: https://stephanlivera.com/episode/140/
[keyvan63]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TotalBitcoin-63-Gigi---Bitcoin-is-a-Marathon-eaa3ka
[keyvan63-yt]: https://youtu.be/H9skOpUVfIk
[twib2]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--1-24-2020--Centralized-time--Coinbase--Bcash--Fed-Coins--Venezuela--Insurance-eadkqf
[twib2-youtube]: https://youtu.be/vZcf5eRz-Gs
[once-bitten6]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Bitcoin-Is-A-Harsh-Mistress-eapg7e
[fwb70]: https://anchor.fm/funwithbitcoin/episodes/Interviewdiscussion-with-DerGigi--definitive-shitcoin-dump-episode-eb8c6j
[ss1]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/regrouping-after-a-bitcoin-price-crash-episode-1
[once-bitten26]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Dergigi-Just-Three-More-Halvings-ecinjv
[vob-panel]: https://youtu.be/D11bW2YlNJ8
[define-your-moon]: https://youtu.be/lx4Jlq1iIy4
[ss11]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/knut-svanholm-and-gigi-e11
[ss11-yt]: https://youtu.be/ExzzQzh7BLU
[twib3]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--5-22-2020--Fake-Satoshi-coins--Pizza-day--Mempool--Lightning-Network--BTC-365-day-moving-average-eeeskd
[twib3-yt]: https://youtu.be/HtkJ_KRsY4M
[mrpseu]: https://pgibs.io/2020/06/15/143-secret-keys-with-dergigi/
[als]: https://youtu.be/9b2OdjXeC88
[vivek]: https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9mZWVkcy50cmFuc2lzdG9yLmZtL3RoZS12aXZlay1wb2RjYXN0/episode/MzRiZWViMjktNTE0MC00MDg5LWI3NjYtZjE0OTIxMzg3ZjA4
[vivek-spotify]: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0rKlBKcG7N2KpRkWdoPcuT?si=yK_7acdqQVakAm3Om8VbmA

[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}
[bitcoin]: {{ '/bitcoin' | absolute_url }}

Commit message:

[Interviews] Add Swan Signal Live 16

bitcoin/interviews.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Interviews
description: Interviews with Gigi and various podcast appearances
redirect_from: interviews
---

Finding the time to read long articles and books can be challenging, which is why I love
podcasts and recorded conversations of all kinds. If you do too, here are some conversations
and [talks](#talks) where I share my thoughts about [Bitcoin][bitcoin].

  - **2020-06-25** - [Swan Signal #16][ss16] with Udi Wertheimer, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss16-yt])
  - **2020-06-22** - [Vivek #12][vivek] on Bitcoin in 1000 years from now, hosted by Vivek (also on [Spotify][vivek-spotify])
  - **2020-06-15** - [ABNP #143][mrpseu] on time, the oracle problem, OpSec, identity, and self-sovereignty, hosted by Mr. Pseu
  - **2020-05-22** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib3] with Juan and Guy, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib3-yt])
  - **2020-05-20** - [Swan Signal #11][ss11] with Knut, Brekkie, and Cory, hosted by Brady (also on [youtube][ss11-yt])

  ---

  - **2020-05-11** - [Celebrating the Third Bitcoin Halving][define-your-moon]: Define your Moon with BitcoinTina and David Bailey hosted by Bitcoin Magazine
  - **2020-05-11** - [Panel Discussion][vob-panel] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference with Knut, Nik, Conner, Katie, and Max, hosted by John Vallis
  - **2020-04-15** - [Al's Lacrosse][als] on 21 Lessons, biology, complexity theatre, and PoW, hosted by Dirtbag Al
  - **2020-04-09** - [Once Bitten #26][once-bitten26] on privacy and the difference between the legacy and the Bitcoin world, hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-03-14** - [Swan Signal #1][ss1] with Guy, Yan, Hass, John, and Cory on the current state of the world and Bitcoin, hosted by Brady
  - **2020-03-04** - [Fun With Bitcoin #70][fwb70] on the Shitcoin Trap and why Bitcoin is superior, hosted by Coinicarus
  - **2020-02-12** - [Once Bitten #6][once-bitten6] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity hosted by Daniel Prince
  - **2020-01-24** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib2] with Mauricio Di Bartolomeo and David Bennett, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib2-youtube])
  - **2020-01-20** - [Total Bitcoin #63][keyvan63] on Bitcoin's Adoption Cycles, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan63-yt])
  - **2020-01-10** - [Stephan Livera Podcast #140][slp140] on 21 Lessons and Bitcoin's Gravity, hosted by Stephan Livera
  - **2019-10-13** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #31][bec31] on Bitcoin as a Religion and other cosmic thoughts, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-10-11** - [Citizen Bitcoin #54][cb54] on the Circularity of the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole, hosted by Brady  
  - **2019-09-04** - [Rapid Fire #6][rf6-discussion] on Narratives, Bitcoin Monks, Bitcoin Zen, and much more, hosted by John Vallis ([discussion][rf6-discussion], [rapid fire][rf6-fire])
  - **2019-08-22** - [CryptoChat #20][cryptochat20] on the Bitcoin Organism with Brandon Quittem, hosted by Guy Swann
  - **2019-08-11** - [DYKC #47][dykc47] on Bitcoin as a living organism, the political nature of an apolitical protocol, and more; hosted by Dustin
  - **2019-07-30** - [The Bitcoin Takeover S3E6][takeover] on viewing Bitcoin as a living organism, politics, Bitcoin as pure information, and many other topics, hosted by Vlad Costea (also on [youtube][takeover-youtube])
  - **2019-07-01** - [Fun with Crypto #30][fwc30] on Bitcoin as an exponential technology
  - **2019-06-28** - [This Week in Bitcoin][twib] with BTC Sessions and Steve Barbour, hosted by Adam Meister (also on [youtube][twib-youtube])
  - **2019-06-24** - [Bitcoin Echo Chamber #22][bec22] on the BTC paradigm shift, hosted by Collin
  - **2019-06-23** - [Discussion on privacy][keyvan-privacy] with Matt Odell and Aleksandar Svetski, hosted by Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-privacy-yt])
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #10][turm10] on Technology, Chapter 3
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #9][turm9] on Economics, Chapter 2
  - **2019-06-21** - [Bitcoin im Turm #8][turm8] on Philosophy, Chapter 1
  - **2019-06-06** - [POV Crypto #56][pov56] on Bitcoin's Gravity, Monetary Maximalism, Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work with Christian and David
  - **2019-05-23** - [Citizen Bitcoin #38][cb38] on 21lessons.com with Brady
  - **2019-05-08** - [Contrarian Island #7][ci7] on Bitcoin's Gravity
  - **2019-04-21** - [German interview][keyvan-german] with Keyvan (also on [youtube][keyvan-german])
  - **2019-04-19** - [English interview][keyvan-english] with Keyvan Davani (also on [youtube][keyvan-english])

Want to talk? Feel free to [reach out to me][contact].

---

# Talks

  - **2020-06-02** - [Keynote: The Bitcoin Journey][vob-bitcoin-journey] at the Value of Bitcoin Conference

[vob-bitcoin-journey]: https://youtu.be/qVuFX0LkNDQ

[keyvan-german]: https://youtu.be/ShbOXJ0Qj2c
[keyvan-english]: https://youtu.be/RrW2yhEY39Y
[keyvan-pod-de]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/For-German-speaking-Listeners-Deutsch-sprachiges-Interview-mit-dem-Bitcoiner-Gigi-aufgenommen-am-21--April--2019-e3ss2f
[keyvan-pod-en]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/Interview-with-Gigi--Bitcoiner--Bitcoin-e3r65v
[ci7]: http://contrarianisland.buzzsprout.com/265373/1106735-contrarian-island-7-gigi-bitcoin-s-gravity
[cb38]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-21-lessons-from-down-the-bitcoin
[pov56]: https://medium.com/@TrustlessState/the-gravity-of-monetary-maximalism-cf968dd23268
[turm8]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/8
[turm9]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/9
[turm10]: https://media.zencast.fm/bitcoin-im-turm/episodes/10
[keyvan-privacy]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TheTotalConnector11-Interview-with-Aleks-Svetski--Gigi--and-Matt-Odell-on-Bitcoin-e4dq7a
[keyvan-privacy-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M58cq0bRwng
[bec22]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/06/24/paradigm-shift-with-gigi-bec022/
[twib]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--6-28-2019--Future-of-Altcoins--Gold--BTC-mining--21-Lessons--Coinbase-outage-e4fpnd
[twib-youtube]: https://youtu.be/VxG57es11kM
[fwc30]: http://funwithcrypto.libsyn.com/interviewdiscussion-with-dergigi
[takeover]: https://bitcoin-takeover.com/s3-e6-gigi-on-bitcoin-as-a-living-organism/
[takeover-youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtmW4oIFs-w
[dykc47]: http://didyouknowcrypto.com/ep47/
[cryptochat20]: https://anchor.fm/thecryptoconomy/episodes/CryptoChat_020---ITS-ALIVE---Brandon-Quittem--Der-Gigi-on-the-Bitcoin-Organism-e522gb
[rf6-discussion]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Further-Discussion-Gigi-e57fdh
[rf6-fire]: https://anchor.fm/john-vallis/episodes/Gigi-Down-the-Bitcoin-Rabbit-Hole-e57f8j
[cb54]: https://citizenbitcoin.world/episodes/gigi-rabbit-hole-revelations
[bec31]: https://bitcoinechochamber.com/2019/10/13/bitcoin-lives-with-gigi-bec031/
[slp140]: https://stephanlivera.com/episode/140/
[keyvan63]: https://anchor.fm/keyvandavani/episodes/TotalBitcoin-63-Gigi---Bitcoin-is-a-Marathon-eaa3ka
[keyvan63-yt]: https://youtu.be/H9skOpUVfIk
[twib2]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--1-24-2020--Centralized-time--Coinbase--Bcash--Fed-Coins--Venezuela--Insurance-eadkqf
[twib2-youtube]: https://youtu.be/vZcf5eRz-Gs
[once-bitten6]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Bitcoin-Is-A-Harsh-Mistress-eapg7e
[fwb70]: https://anchor.fm/funwithbitcoin/episodes/Interviewdiscussion-with-DerGigi--definitive-shitcoin-dump-episode-eb8c6j
[ss1]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/regrouping-after-a-bitcoin-price-crash-episode-1
[once-bitten26]: https://anchor.fm/daniel-prince6/episodes/Dergigi-Just-Three-More-Halvings-ecinjv
[vob-panel]: https://youtu.be/D11bW2YlNJ8
[define-your-moon]: https://youtu.be/lx4Jlq1iIy4
[ss11]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/knut-svanholm-and-gigi-e11
[ss11-yt]: https://youtu.be/ExzzQzh7BLU
[twib3]: https://anchor.fm/bitcoinmeister/episodes/This-week-in-Bitcoin--5-22-2020--Fake-Satoshi-coins--Pizza-day--Mempool--Lightning-Network--BTC-365-day-moving-average-eeeskd
[twib3-yt]: https://youtu.be/HtkJ_KRsY4M
[mrpseu]: https://pgibs.io/2020/06/15/143-secret-keys-with-dergigi/
[als]: https://youtu.be/9b2OdjXeC88
[vivek]: https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9mZWVkcy50cmFuc2lzdG9yLmZtL3RoZS12aXZlay1wb2RjYXN0/episode/MzRiZWViMjktNTE0MC00MDg5LWI3NjYtZjE0OTIxMzg3ZjA4
[vivek-spotify]: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0rKlBKcG7N2KpRkWdoPcuT?si=yK_7acdqQVakAm3Om8VbmA
[ss16]: https://swansignal.simplecast.com/episodes/gigi-and-udi-wertheimer-e16
[ss16-yt]: https://youtu.be/K3l6-voNzSY

[contact]: {{ '/contact' | absolute_url }}
[bitcoin]: {{ '/bitcoin' | absolute_url }}
