bitcoin/resources.md, before:

---
layout: resources
title: Bitcoin Resources
image: /assets/images/bitcoin-resources-twitter-cover.jpg
description: Books, articles, podcasts, and other curated Bitcoin resources.
---

**TL;DR:** Read [The Bitcoin Standard][bitcoin-standard] and [The Bullish
Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case].

---

### Essentials

I encourage everyone to start at the beginning, and read -- or at least skim --
the 8 pages which gave birth to Bitcoin:

- [Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System][bitcoin-whitepaper] by Satoshi Nakamoto

To get a grasp on Bitcoin you will have to read a book or two.  If you only want
to read one book, you can't do wrong with Saifedean's **[The Bitcoin
Standard][the-bitcoin-standard]**. Bitcoin is money, so understanding [The
Ethics of Money Production][the-ethics-of-money-production] is paramount to
understanding what Bitcoin is about. If you need a crash-course in economics I
recommend reading [Economics in One Lesson][economics-in-one-lesson] by Henry
Hazlitt. All three books are also available as audiobooks.

[economics-in-one-lesson]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/economics-in-one-lesson' | absolute_url }}
[the-bitcoin-standard]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/the-bitcoin-standard' | absolute_url }}
[the-ethics-of-money-production]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/the-ethics-of-money-production' | absolute_url }}

{% include books.html category='essentials' %}

If you prefer a shorter introduction, I recommend you read and listen to the
following:

- [The Bullish Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case] by Vijay Boyapati ([audio
version][bullish-case-audio])
- [The Stories We Tell About Money][aantonop-stories] by Andreas Antonopoulos

---

<center>
  <p><small><a href="#toc">↓ Table of Contents ↓</a></small></p>

</center>

[toc]: #toc
[essentials]: #essentials
[books]: #books
[articles]: #articles
[podcasts]: #podcasts
[episodes]: #podcast-episodes
[wikis-and-guides]: #wikis-and-guides
[other]: #further-resources

---


### Books

Thanks to Bitcoin, my list of books to read gets longer and longer, way quicker
than I could ever read them. The books listed below are books I can personally
recommend. If a particular book is not listed here, it is probably because I
didn't get around to read it yet. Although there is some overlap, the books are
roughly grouped by topics as follows:

- [Bitcoin (non-technical)][bitcoin-non-technical]
- [Bitcoin (technical)][bitcoin-technical]
- [Economics][economics]
- [Money][money]
- [Banking][banking]
- [Software and Programming][software-and-programming]
- [Computation and Complexity Theory][computation-and-complexity-theory]
- [Work][work]

[bitcoin-non-technical]: #bitcoin-non-technical
[bitcoin-technical]: #bitcoin-technical
[economics]: #economics
[money]: #money
[banking]: #banking
[software-and-programming]: #software-and-programming
[computation-and-complexity-theory]: #computation-and-complexity-theory
[work]: #work

I hope to update this list continually as my reading progresses.

#### Bitcoin (non-technical)

Books about Bitcoin which can be read by anyone, no special background knowledge
or education required. As mentioned above, I consider [The Bitcoin
Standard][the-bitcoin-standard] required reading for anyone interested in
Bitcoin.

{% include books.html category='non-technical' %}

Even though [Bitcoin Money][bitcoin-money] is a children's book, it drives home
the value proposition of Bitcoin in a succinct way, making it valuable for
readers of all ages.

{% include books.html category='non-technical2' %}

The Internet of Money books are a collection of talks by Andreas Antonopoulos,
most of which are available for [free on YouTube][aantonop-bitcoin-talks]. The
Book Of Satoshi is a collection of Satoshi Nakamoto's writings, which are
available for free at the [Satoshi Nakamoto Institute][complete-satoshi].

[bitcoin-money]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/bitcoin-money' | absolute_url }}
[aantonop-bitcoin-talks]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPQwGV1aLnTthcG265_FYSaV24hFScvC0
[complete-satoshi]: https://satoshi.nakamotoinstitute.org/

#### Bitcoin (technical)

If you would like to dig deeper or get your hands dirty with programming, these
books are for you. Technical knowledge and skills in computer science,
programming, and/or mathematics are beneficial.

{% include books.html category='technical' %}

Mastering Bitcoin is [available for free on GitHub][mastering-bitcoin-free].
Programming Bitcoin includes plenty of [programming
exercises][programming-bitcoin-exercises], which are available for free on
GitHub as well. Grokking Bitcoin is [available for free on
GitHub][grokking-bitcoin-free] as well.

[mastering-bitcoin-free]: https://github.com/bitcoinbook/bitcoinbook
[programming-bitcoin-exercises]: https://github.com/jimmysong/programmingbitcoin
[grokking-bitcoin-free]: https://github.com/kallerosenbaum/grokkingbitcoin
[wikis-and-guides]: #wikis-and-guides

#### Economics

Bitcoin is capable of being the new base layer of our economy, which is why
understanding economics is essential in understanding Bitcoin. Bitcoin's
monetary policy is aligned with the Austrian School of economic thought, which
is why reading the works of Austrian's such as Hayek, Hazlitt, Hoppe, Menger,
Mises, Rothbard (and others) is recommended by those who take Bitcoin's value
proposition seriously.

{% include books.html category='economics' %}

Human Action, Mises' magnum opus, is [freely available][human-action-free] as
both an ebook and an audiobook.

[human-action-free]: https://mises.org/library/human-action-0

#### Money

In stark contrast to our current economic system, Bitcoin does not offer the
possibility of inflating the monetary base. Understanding money - and especially
*sound* money - is paramount to understanding the value proposition and ultimate
impact of Bitcoin.

{% include books.html category='money' %}

All of the above are available for free at the Mises Institute.

#### Banking

Banking is a mystery to most, and central banking doubly so. Bitcoin isn't
necessarily an enemy of the former, but, if successful, it will abolish and
replace the latter.

{% include books.html category='banking' %}

#### Software and Programming

Bitcoin is free, libre open-source software. It is free as in freedom, free as
in free speech. What this means, why free software exists, and what the
implications of free (vs proprietary) software are, is important to understand
the unstoppability of Bitcoin. I would argue that the ethos of GNU and UNIX
programming are important cornerstones for Bitcoin as well.

{% include books.html category='software' %}

#### Computation and Complexity Theory

While Bitcoin is in the business of verification and not computation, knowing
the limits of what computers can do and what future computers might be able to
do can be beneficial to better understand some parts of Bitcoin. I highly
recommend [Gödel, Escher, Bach][gödel-escher-bach] because it is a deeply
fascinating and beautiful book.

[gödel-escher-bach]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/gödel-escher-bach' | absolute_url }}

{% include books.html category='computation' %}

[Quantum Computing Since Democritus][quantum-computing-since-democritus] is
quite dense, but it is also quite entertaining at times. The [lecture
notes][quantum-computing-since-democritus-free] which this book is based upon
are freely available online. Note that the first couple of chapters stay in the
non-quantum world of computing and might help to understand why breaking
Bitcoin's security is so hard. [A New Kind of Science][a-new-kind-of-science] is
certainly not for everyone, but it beautifully shows how simple rules can lead
to complex systems.

[quantum-computing-since-democritus]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/quantum-computing-since-democritus' | absolute_url }}
[quantum-computing-since-democritus-free]: https://www.scottaaronson.com/democritus/
[a-new-kind-of-science]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/a-new-kind-of-science' | absolute_url }}

#### Work

Decentralized networks like Bitcoin, and the internet before it, change the way
people interact and work with each other. People who work on or create content
for Bitcoin are located all over the world, thus regular approaches to work
might not produce the best results. I found the following books to hit a certain
nerve, speaking as someone who has stepped outside of the regular way of working
on things. If you think about working on Bitcoin or other open-source projects,
these books are for you.

{% include books.html category='work' %}

---

### Articles

Many amazing articles have been written about Bitcoin. I am aware that trying to
link to all of them is futile, but I want to make an effort and at least
highlight some of them. I highly recommend the [literature listed][sni] at the
Nakamoto Institute, the selection of [articles read][guy-episodes] by
Guy Swann, and the [writings collected][brh-writings] by Adam Taché.

One of the best articles to read if you are new to Bitcoin is [The Bullish Case
for Bitcoin][bullish-case], which outlines why there are very good reasons to be
optimistic about Bitcoin's future.

- [The Bullish Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case] by Vijay Boyapati

#### The Difficulty of Understanding Bitcoin

Bitcoin isn't exactly easy to understand. Some of the reasons for this
phenomenon are explored in the following articles:

- [Why It’s Hard to “Get” Bitcoin][blockchain-spectrum] by Dhruv Bansal
- [Why Blockchain is Hard][blockchain-is-hard] by Jimmy Song
- [Nobody Understands Bitcoin (And That’s OK)][nobody-understands] by Jameson Lopp

I explore the multi-disciplinary nature of Bitcoin at [21lessons.com].

[21lessons.com]: http://21lessons.com

#### Bitcoin's Uniqueness

Why Bitcoin, and not something else? Because Bitcoin matters, Bitcoin is unique,
Bitcoin is fair, and Bitcoin is way better than you think.

- [Why Bitcoin is Different][why-different] by Jimmy Song
- [Why Bitcoin Matters][why-matters] by Aleksandar Svetski
- [Bitcoin is Worse is Better][worse-better] by Gwern
- [Bitcoin’s distribution was fair][distribution-fair] by Dan Held
- [There is no Bitcoin 2.0][no-bitcoin-2.0] by Pete Dushenski

#### Money

If you aren't ready yet to read [books on money][money], these articles are a
great entry point to start learning about the purpose and history of money.

- [Shelling Out: The Origins of Money][shelling-out] by Nick Szabo
- [Money, blockchains, and social scalability][social-scalability] by Nick Szabo

#### Proof-of-work

In my opinion, proof-of-work is one of the most misunderstood parts of the
Bitcoin puzzle. It solves multiple problems, making it one of the most integral
parts of the system. The following articles explore proof-of-work in more
detail:

- [The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work][pow-anatomy] by Hugo Nguyen
- [Work is Timeless, Stake is Not][pow-timeless] by Hugo Nguyen
- [Bitcoin Doesn't Waste Electricity][no-waste] by Beautyon
- [Nothing is Cheaper than Proof of Work][pow-cheapest] by Paul Sztorc
- [Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock][decentralized-clock] by Gregory Trubetskoy

I wrote about how I changed my view on proof of work in [Bitcoin's Energy
Consumption: A shift in perspective][energy-consumption] and in [Lesson 17][lesson-17].

[energy-consumption]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-06-10-bitcoin-s-energy-consumption %}
[lesson-17]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch3-17-telling-time-takes-work' | absolute_url }}

#### Bitcoin's Identity

What is Bitcoin? This question is surprisingly difficult to answer. It is a
network (Bitcoin), money (bitcoin), software (various implementations), an idea
(the white paper), an immutable record of ownership (Bitcoin's ledger, aka the
"block chain"), a movement, a monetary revolution, and more.

- [Bitcoin’s Existential Crisis][be-a-bitcoin] (original title: What is it like to be a Bitcoin?) by Nic Carter
- [The Many Faces of Bitcoin][many-faces] by Murad Mahmudov and Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin: Past and Future][past-and-future] by Murad Mahmudov and Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin is. And that is enough.][bitcoin-is] by Beautyon
- [That’s not Bitcoin, this is Bitcoin][that-this] by StopAndDecrypt
- [That’s not Bitcoin, that’s BCash][that-this] by StopAndDecrypt

I explored Bitcoin's identity in [Lesson 4][lesson-4].

[lesson-4]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch1-04-the-problem-of-identity' | absolute_url }}

#### Who Controls Bitcoin?

One of the first responses of people learning about Bitcoin is "Yeah yeah I get
it... but who controls it?" The question of control is not an easy one to
answer, because you have to understand the whole system on a pretty deep level
to answer it. The following articles might help.

- [Bitcoin Governance][bitcoin-governance] by Pierre Rochard
- [Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract][social-contract] by Hasu
- [Bitcoin Miners Beware: Invalid Blocks Need Not Apply][invalid-blocks] by StopAndDecrypt
- [Why America Can’t Regulate Bitcoin][cant-regulate] by Beautyon

I explore the question of control (and censorability) in [Lesson 6][lesson-6]
and in [The Magic Dust of Cryptography][magic-dust].

[magic-dust]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-08-17-the-magic-dust-of-cryptography %}  
[lesson-6]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch1-06-the-power-of-free-speech' | absolute_url }}

#### Bitcoin as a Living Organism

Ralph Merkle famously called Bitcoin ["the first example of a new form of
life."][dao-merkle]. Others developed this idea further, which is - in my
opinion - one of the most useful analogies to understand Bitcoin.

- [Foreword to The Bitcoin Standard][taleb-foreword] by Nassim Nicholas Taleb
- [Bitcoin is a Decentralized Organism][fungi1] by Brandon Quittem
- [Bitcoin is a Social Creature][fungi2] by Brandon Quittem

#### Cypherpunks

Bitcoin is cypherpunk technology. Made by a cypherpunk, based on cypherpunk
ideas. I consider exposure to the ideas and ideals of cypherpunk culture
essential.

- [A Cypherpunk's Manifesto][cypherpunks-manifesto] by Eric Hughes
- [The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto][crypto-anarchist-manifesto] by Timothy C. May
- [The Cyphernomicon][cyphernomicon] by Timothy C. May

#### Misc

The following are what I consider excellent articles that didn't fit into one
of my arbitrarily chosen categories above.

- [The God Protocols][god-protocols] by Nick Szabo
- [Trusted Third Parties Are Security Holes][security-holes] by Nick Szabo
- [The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition][bitcoin-halving] by Saifedean Ammous
- [Everyone's a Scammer][everyone-scammer] by Michael Goldstein
- [Guess My Bitcoin Private Key][guess-pk] by Michael Kerbleski
- [Stage n: Bitcoin exists][stage-n] by Mircea Popescu
- [An Open Letter to Banks about Bitcoin and Cryptocurrencies][open-letter] by Peter McCormack

---

### Podcasts

One of the best ways to educate yourself on Bitcoin is by listening to the
smartest people in the space. Luckily, we are living in the golden age of
podcasts, and many great conversations are "open source" so to speak.
Disclosure: I was a guest on some of these podcasts. Links to those specific
episodes can be found [here][interviews].

I consider the following podcasts the best in the space:

- [Tales From The Crypt][tftc] by Marty Bent with RHR co-host Matt Odell
- [Noded][noded] by Pierre Rochard and Michael Goldstein
- [Stephan Livera Podcast][slp] by Stephan Livera
- [What Bitcoin Did][wbd] by Peter McCormack

Although I try to listen to every Bitcoin podcast under the sun, it is simply an
unsurmountable feat due to the sheer volume of content. The following podcasts
are excellent as well:

- [The Cryptoconomy][cryptoconomy] by Guy Swann
- [Bitcoin Echo Chamber][bec] by Heavily Armed Clown
- [Citizen Bitcoin][cb] by Brady
- [Crypto Voices][cv] by Matthew Mežinskis and Fernando Ulrich
- [The Bitcoin Knowledge Podcast][bkp] by Trace Mayer
- [Contrarian Island][ci] by MD
- [Crypto & Grill][cag] by CryptoDantes and StigofthePump

The line between the best and the rest is quite arbitrary, but I felt like one
very long list might not be as useful as separate lists, however arbitrary the
distinction. I enjoy or have enjoyed these podcasts as well:

- [Let's Talk Bitcoin][ltb] with Adam B. Levine, Andreas Antonopoulos, Stephanie Murphy, and Jonathan Mohan
- [Reckless Review][rr] by Udi Wertheimer and Lawrence Nahum
- [Bitcoin and...][ba] by David Bennet
- [Fun With Crypto][fwc] by Coinicarus
- [POV Crypto][pov] by David Hoffman and Christian Keroles
- [Bottomshelf Bitcoin][bsb] by Josh Humphrey

#### Selected Podcast Episodes

Some "evergreen" episodes were recorded in the last couple of years. Again, this
is a personal selection so it is biased towards certain guests and topics.

{% include sodes.html %}

I am still in the process of going through the archives, so this list will
probably grow over time. If there is an episode missing that you consider
one of the best, feel free to [reach out to me][contact] and shill me said
episode.

---

### Further Resources



#### Wikis and Guides

There are many great articles written by contributors of the [Bitcoin
Wiki][wiki-bitcoin]. If you want to know more about a specific topic, the
Bitcoin Wiki is a great resource. The [Libbitcoin Wiki][wiki-libbitcoin] has an
amazing list of fallacies and some great explanations of Bitcoin's properties
and principles. If you want to start hacking on Bitcoin you might want to check
out the [Bitcoin Developer Guide][bitcoin-dev-guide].

- [Bitcoin Wiki][wiki-bitcoin] maintained by the Bitcoin community
- [Libbitcoin Wiki][wiki-libbitcoin] by libbitcoin developers
- [Bitcoin Developer Guide][bitcoin-dev-guide] by bitcoin.org

#### Other Curations

There are other, more complete curations of Bitcoin content and resources. If
you are looking for longer, more varied lists, the following got you covered:

- [Bitcoin Literature][sni] by the Satoshi Nakamoto Institute
- [Learning Resources][bitcoin-only] by Bitcoin-Only
- [Bitcoin Information & Resources][lopp] by Jameson Lopp
- [Curated Bitcoin Articles][guy] by Guy Swann
- [Bitcoin Survivor's Book List][guy-books] by Guy Swann
- [Bitcoin Archive][bitcoin-archive] by Max Hillebrand
- [Bitcoin Rabbit Hole][brh] by Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin Learning Master List][blml] by Nick Ward
- [Awesome What is Bitcoin][awib] list by CypherPoet
- [Awesome Bitcoin][ab] list of libraries and APIs by Igor Barinov
- [Mises Library][mises] by The Mises Institute
- [Unenumerated][unenumerated] by Nick Szabo

---

### About these Resources

The resources listed above are but a small selection which was particularly
influential in my thinking. A sincere *thank you* to all the people who shared
their thoughts and insights, past and present. I have learned so much, and for
that, I will be eternally grateful.

If you have suggestions for content or improvements, feel free to open issues
or PRs on [GitHub][issues] or [reach out to me][contact].

{% include bibliography.md %}

Commit message:

Add cryptoconomy featured episodes by infominer

bitcoin/resources.md, after:

---
layout: resources
title: Bitcoin Resources
image: /assets/images/bitcoin-resources-twitter-cover.jpg
description: Books, articles, podcasts, and other curated Bitcoin resources.
---

**TL;DR:** Read [The Bitcoin Standard][bitcoin-standard] and [The Bullish
Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case].

---

### Essentials

I encourage everyone to start at the beginning, and read -- or at least skim --
the 8 pages which gave birth to Bitcoin:

- [Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System][bitcoin-whitepaper] by Satoshi Nakamoto

To get a grasp on Bitcoin you will have to read a book or two.  If you only want
to read one book, you can't do wrong with Saifedean's **[The Bitcoin
Standard][the-bitcoin-standard]**. Bitcoin is money, so understanding [The
Ethics of Money Production][the-ethics-of-money-production] is paramount to
understanding what Bitcoin is about. If you need a crash-course in economics I
recommend reading [Economics in One Lesson][economics-in-one-lesson] by Henry
Hazlitt. All three books are also available as audiobooks.

[economics-in-one-lesson]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/economics-in-one-lesson' | absolute_url }}
[the-bitcoin-standard]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/the-bitcoin-standard' | absolute_url }}
[the-ethics-of-money-production]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/the-ethics-of-money-production' | absolute_url }}

{% include books.html category='essentials' %}

If you prefer a shorter introduction, I recommend you read and listen to the
following:

- [The Bullish Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case] by Vijay Boyapati ([audio
version][bullish-case-audio])
- [The Stories We Tell About Money][aantonop-stories] by Andreas Antonopoulos

---

<center>
  <p><small><a href="#toc">↓ Table of Contents ↓</a></small></p>

</center>

[toc]: #toc
[essentials]: #essentials
[books]: #books
[articles]: #articles
[podcasts]: #podcasts
[episodes]: #podcast-episodes
[wikis-and-guides]: #wikis-and-guides
[other]: #further-resources

---


### Books

Thanks to Bitcoin, my list of books to read gets longer and longer, way quicker
than I could ever read them. The books listed below are books I can personally
recommend. If a particular book is not listed here, it is probably because I
didn't get around to read it yet. Although there is some overlap, the books are
roughly grouped by topics as follows:

- [Bitcoin (non-technical)][bitcoin-non-technical]
- [Bitcoin (technical)][bitcoin-technical]
- [Economics][economics]
- [Money][money]
- [Banking][banking]
- [Software and Programming][software-and-programming]
- [Computation and Complexity Theory][computation-and-complexity-theory]
- [Work][work]

[bitcoin-non-technical]: #bitcoin-non-technical
[bitcoin-technical]: #bitcoin-technical
[economics]: #economics
[money]: #money
[banking]: #banking
[software-and-programming]: #software-and-programming
[computation-and-complexity-theory]: #computation-and-complexity-theory
[work]: #work

I hope to update this list continually as my reading progresses.

#### Bitcoin (non-technical)

Books about Bitcoin which can be read by anyone, no special background knowledge
or education required. As mentioned above, I consider [The Bitcoin
Standard][the-bitcoin-standard] required reading for anyone interested in
Bitcoin.

{% include books.html category='non-technical' %}

Even though [Bitcoin Money][bitcoin-money] is a children's book, it drives home
the value proposition of Bitcoin in a succinct way, making it valuable for
readers of all ages.

{% include books.html category='non-technical2' %}

The Internet of Money books are a collection of talks by Andreas Antonopoulos,
most of which are available for [free on YouTube][aantonop-bitcoin-talks]. The
Book Of Satoshi is a collection of Satoshi Nakamoto's writings, which are
available for free at the [Satoshi Nakamoto Institute][complete-satoshi].

[bitcoin-money]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/bitcoin-money' | absolute_url }}
[aantonop-bitcoin-talks]: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPQwGV1aLnTthcG265_FYSaV24hFScvC0
[complete-satoshi]: https://satoshi.nakamotoinstitute.org/

#### Bitcoin (technical)

If you would like to dig deeper or get your hands dirty with programming, these
books are for you. Technical knowledge and skills in computer science,
programming, and/or mathematics are beneficial.

{% include books.html category='technical' %}

Mastering Bitcoin is [available for free on GitHub][mastering-bitcoin-free].
Programming Bitcoin includes plenty of [programming
exercises][programming-bitcoin-exercises], which are available for free on
GitHub as well. Grokking Bitcoin is [available for free on
GitHub][grokking-bitcoin-free] as well.

[mastering-bitcoin-free]: https://github.com/bitcoinbook/bitcoinbook
[programming-bitcoin-exercises]: https://github.com/jimmysong/programmingbitcoin
[grokking-bitcoin-free]: https://github.com/kallerosenbaum/grokkingbitcoin
[wikis-and-guides]: #wikis-and-guides

#### Economics

Bitcoin is capable of being the new base layer of our economy, which is why
understanding economics is essential in understanding Bitcoin. Bitcoin's
monetary policy is aligned with the Austrian School of economic thought, which
is why reading the works of Austrian's such as Hayek, Hazlitt, Hoppe, Menger,
Mises, Rothbard (and others) is recommended by those who take Bitcoin's value
proposition seriously.

{% include books.html category='economics' %}

Human Action, Mises' magnum opus, is [freely available][human-action-free] as
both an ebook and an audiobook.

[human-action-free]: https://mises.org/library/human-action-0

#### Money

In stark contrast to our current economic system, Bitcoin does not offer the
possibility of inflating the monetary base. Understanding money - and especially
*sound* money - is paramount to understanding the value proposition and ultimate
impact of Bitcoin.

{% include books.html category='money' %}

All of the above are available for free at the Mises Institute.

#### Banking

Banking is a mystery to most, and central banking doubly so. Bitcoin isn't
necessarily an enemy of the former, but, if successful, it will abolish and
replace the latter.

{% include books.html category='banking' %}

#### Software and Programming

Bitcoin is free, libre open-source software. It is free as in freedom, free as
in free speech. What this means, why free software exists, and what the
implications of free (vs proprietary) software are, is important to understand
the unstoppability of Bitcoin. I would argue that the ethos of GNU and UNIX
programming are important cornerstones for Bitcoin as well.

{% include books.html category='software' %}

#### Computation and Complexity Theory

While Bitcoin is in the business of verification and not computation, knowing
the limits of what computers can do and what future computers might be able to
do can be beneficial to better understand some parts of Bitcoin. I highly
recommend [Gödel, Escher, Bach][gödel-escher-bach] because it is a deeply
fascinating and beautiful book.

[gödel-escher-bach]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/gödel-escher-bach' | absolute_url }}

{% include books.html category='computation' %}

[Quantum Computing Since Democritus][quantum-computing-since-democritus] is
quite dense, but it is also quite entertaining at times. The [lecture
notes][quantum-computing-since-democritus-free] which this book is based upon
are freely available online. Note that the first couple of chapters stay in the
non-quantum world of computing and might help to understand why breaking
Bitcoin's security is so hard. [A New Kind of Science][a-new-kind-of-science] is
certainly not for everyone, but it beautifully shows how simple rules can lead
to complex systems.

[quantum-computing-since-democritus]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/quantum-computing-since-democritus' | absolute_url }}
[quantum-computing-since-democritus-free]: https://www.scottaaronson.com/democritus/
[a-new-kind-of-science]: {{ '/bitcoin/resources/a-new-kind-of-science' | absolute_url }}

#### Work

Decentralized networks like Bitcoin, and the internet before it, change the way
people interact and work with each other. People who work on or create content
for Bitcoin are located all over the world, thus regular approaches to work
might not produce the best results. I found the following books to hit a certain
nerve, speaking as someone who has stepped outside of the regular way of working
on things. If you think about working on Bitcoin or other open-source projects,
these books are for you.

{% include books.html category='work' %}

---

### Articles

Many amazing articles have been written about Bitcoin. I am aware that trying to
link to all of them is futile, but I want to make an effort and at least
highlight some of them. I highly recommend the [literature listed][sni] at the
Nakamoto Institute, the selection of [articles read][guy-episodes] by
Guy Swann, and the [writings collected][brh-writings] by Adam Taché.

One of the best articles to read if you are new to Bitcoin is [The Bullish Case
for Bitcoin][bullish-case], which outlines why there are very good reasons to be
optimistic about Bitcoin's future.

- [The Bullish Case for Bitcoin][bullish-case] by Vijay Boyapati

#### The Difficulty of Understanding Bitcoin

Bitcoin isn't exactly easy to understand. Some of the reasons for this
phenomenon are explored in the following articles:

- [Why It’s Hard to “Get” Bitcoin][blockchain-spectrum] by Dhruv Bansal
- [Why Blockchain is Hard][blockchain-is-hard] by Jimmy Song
- [Nobody Understands Bitcoin (And That’s OK)][nobody-understands] by Jameson Lopp

I explore the multi-disciplinary nature of Bitcoin at [21lessons.com].

[21lessons.com]: http://21lessons.com

#### Bitcoin's Uniqueness

Why Bitcoin, and not something else? Because Bitcoin matters, Bitcoin is unique,
Bitcoin is fair, and Bitcoin is way better than you think.

- [Why Bitcoin is Different][why-different] by Jimmy Song
- [Why Bitcoin Matters][why-matters] by Aleksandar Svetski
- [Bitcoin is Worse is Better][worse-better] by Gwern
- [Bitcoin’s distribution was fair][distribution-fair] by Dan Held
- [There is no Bitcoin 2.0][no-bitcoin-2.0] by Pete Dushenski

#### Money

If you aren't ready yet to read [books on money][money], these articles are a
great entry point to start learning about the purpose and history of money.

- [Shelling Out: The Origins of Money][shelling-out] by Nick Szabo
- [Money, blockchains, and social scalability][social-scalability] by Nick Szabo

#### Proof-of-work

In my opinion, proof-of-work is one of the most misunderstood parts of the
Bitcoin puzzle. It solves multiple problems, making it one of the most integral
parts of the system. The following articles explore proof-of-work in more
detail:

- [The Anatomy of Proof-of-Work][pow-anatomy] by Hugo Nguyen
- [Work is Timeless, Stake is Not][pow-timeless] by Hugo Nguyen
- [Bitcoin Doesn't Waste Electricity][no-waste] by Beautyon
- [Nothing is Cheaper than Proof of Work][pow-cheapest] by Paul Sztorc
- [Blockchain Proof-of-Work Is a Decentralized Clock][decentralized-clock] by Gregory Trubetskoy

I wrote about how I changed my view on proof of work in [Bitcoin's Energy
Consumption: A shift in perspective][energy-consumption] and in [Lesson 17][lesson-17].

[energy-consumption]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-06-10-bitcoin-s-energy-consumption %}
[lesson-17]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch3-17-telling-time-takes-work' | absolute_url }}

#### Bitcoin's Identity

What is Bitcoin? This question is surprisingly difficult to answer. It is a
network (Bitcoin), money (bitcoin), software (various implementations), an idea
(the white paper), an immutable record of ownership (Bitcoin's ledger, aka the
"block chain"), a movement, a monetary revolution, and more.

- [Bitcoin’s Existential Crisis][be-a-bitcoin] (original title: What is it like to be a Bitcoin?) by Nic Carter
- [The Many Faces of Bitcoin][many-faces] by Murad Mahmudov and Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin: Past and Future][past-and-future] by Murad Mahmudov and Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin is. And that is enough.][bitcoin-is] by Beautyon
- [That’s not Bitcoin, this is Bitcoin][that-this] by StopAndDecrypt
- [That’s not Bitcoin, that’s BCash][that-this] by StopAndDecrypt

I explored Bitcoin's identity in [Lesson 4][lesson-4].

[lesson-4]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch1-04-the-problem-of-identity' | absolute_url }}

#### Who Controls Bitcoin?

One of the first responses of people learning about Bitcoin is "Yeah yeah I get
it... but who controls it?" The question of control is not an easy one to
answer, because you have to understand the whole system on a pretty deep level
to answer it. The following articles might help.

- [Bitcoin Governance][bitcoin-governance] by Pierre Rochard
- [Unpacking Bitcoin's Social Contract][social-contract] by Hasu
- [Bitcoin Miners Beware: Invalid Blocks Need Not Apply][invalid-blocks] by StopAndDecrypt
- [Why America Can’t Regulate Bitcoin][cant-regulate] by Beautyon

I explore the question of control (and censorability) in [Lesson 6][lesson-6]
and in [The Magic Dust of Cryptography][magic-dust].

[magic-dust]: {% post_url /bitcoin/2018-08-17-the-magic-dust-of-cryptography %}  
[lesson-6]: {{ '/bitcoin/lessons/ch1-06-the-power-of-free-speech' | absolute_url }}

#### Bitcoin as a Living Organism

Ralph Merkle famously called Bitcoin ["the first example of a new form of
life."][dao-merkle]. Others developed this idea further, which is - in my
opinion - one of the most useful analogies to understand Bitcoin.

- [Foreword to The Bitcoin Standard][taleb-foreword] by Nassim Nicholas Taleb
- [Bitcoin is a Decentralized Organism][fungi1] by Brandon Quittem
- [Bitcoin is a Social Creature][fungi2] by Brandon Quittem

#### Cypherpunks

Bitcoin is cypherpunk technology. Made by a cypherpunk, based on cypherpunk
ideas. I consider exposure to the ideas and ideals of cypherpunk culture
essential.

- [A Cypherpunk's Manifesto][cypherpunks-manifesto] by Eric Hughes
- [The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto][crypto-anarchist-manifesto] by Timothy C. May
- [The Cyphernomicon][cyphernomicon] by Timothy C. May

#### Misc

The following are what I consider excellent articles that didn't fit into one
of my arbitrarily chosen categories above.

- [The God Protocols][god-protocols] by Nick Szabo
- [Trusted Third Parties Are Security Holes][security-holes] by Nick Szabo
- [The Bitcoin Halving and Monetary Competition][bitcoin-halving] by Saifedean Ammous
- [Everyone's a Scammer][everyone-scammer] by Michael Goldstein
- [Guess My Bitcoin Private Key][guess-pk] by Michael Kerbleski
- [Stage n: Bitcoin exists][stage-n] by Mircea Popescu
- [An Open Letter to Banks about Bitcoin and Cryptocurrencies][open-letter] by Peter McCormack

---

### Podcasts

One of the best ways to educate yourself on Bitcoin is by listening to the
smartest people in the space. Luckily, we are living in the golden age of
podcasts, and many great conversations are "open source" so to speak.
Disclosure: I was a guest on some of these podcasts. Links to those specific
episodes can be found [here][interviews].

I consider the following podcasts the best in the space:

- [Tales From The Crypt][tftc] by Marty Bent with RHR co-host Matt Odell
- [Noded][noded] by Pierre Rochard and Michael Goldstein
- [Stephan Livera Podcast][slp] by Stephan Livera
- [What Bitcoin Did][wbd] by Peter McCormack

Although I try to listen to every Bitcoin podcast under the sun, it is simply an
unsurmountable feat due to the sheer volume of content. The following podcasts
are excellent as well:

- [The Cryptoconomy][cryptoconomy] by Guy Swann
- [Bitcoin Echo Chamber][bec] by Heavily Armed Clown
- [Citizen Bitcoin][cb] by Brady
- [Crypto Voices][cv] by Matthew Mežinskis and Fernando Ulrich
- [The Bitcoin Knowledge Podcast][bkp] by Trace Mayer
- [Contrarian Island][ci] by MD
- [Crypto & Grill][cag] by CryptoDantes and StigofthePump

The line between the best and the rest is quite arbitrary, but I felt like one
very long list might not be as useful as separate lists, however arbitrary the
distinction. I enjoy or have enjoyed these podcasts as well:

- [Let's Talk Bitcoin][ltb] with Adam B. Levine, Andreas Antonopoulos, Stephanie Murphy, and Jonathan Mohan
- [Reckless Review][rr] by Udi Wertheimer and Lawrence Nahum
- [Bitcoin and...][ba] by David Bennet
- [Fun With Crypto][fwc] by Coinicarus
- [POV Crypto][pov] by David Hoffman and Christian Keroles
- [Bottomshelf Bitcoin][bsb] by Josh Humphrey

#### Selected Podcast Episodes

Some "evergreen" episodes were recorded in the last couple of years. Again, this
is a personal selection so it is biased towards certain guests and topics.

{% include sodes.html %}

I am still in the process of going through the archives, so this list will
probably grow over time. If there is an episode missing that you consider
one of the best, feel free to [reach out to me][contact] and shill me said
episode.

---

### Further Resources



#### Wikis and Guides

There are many great articles written by contributors of the [Bitcoin
Wiki][wiki-bitcoin]. If you want to know more about a specific topic, the
Bitcoin Wiki is a great resource. The [Libbitcoin Wiki][wiki-libbitcoin] has an
amazing list of fallacies and some great explanations of Bitcoin's properties
and principles. If you want to start hacking on Bitcoin you might want to check
out the [Bitcoin Developer Guide][bitcoin-dev-guide].

- [Bitcoin Wiki][wiki-bitcoin] maintained by the Bitcoin community
- [Libbitcoin Wiki][wiki-libbitcoin] by libbitcoin developers
- [Bitcoin Developer Guide][bitcoin-dev-guide] by bitcoin.org

#### Other Curations

There are other, more complete curations of Bitcoin content and resources. If
you are looking for longer, more varied lists, the following got you covered:

- [Bitcoin Literature][sni] by the Satoshi Nakamoto Institute
- [Learning Resources][bitcoin-only] by Bitcoin-Only
- [Bitcoin Information & Resources][lopp] by Jameson Lopp
- [Curated Bitcoin Articles][guy] by Guy Swann
- [Bitcoin Survivor's Book List][guy-books] by Guy Swann
- [Featured Episodes of the Cryptoconomy Podcast][guy-episodes-curated] curated by Infominer
- [Bitcoin Archive][bitcoin-archive] by Max Hillebrand
- [Bitcoin Rabbit Hole][brh] by Adam Taché
- [Bitcoin Learning Master List][blml] by Nick Ward
- [Awesome What is Bitcoin][awib] list by CypherPoet
- [Awesome Bitcoin][ab] list of libraries and APIs by Igor Barinov
- [Mises Library][mises] by The Mises Institute
- [Unenumerated][unenumerated] by Nick Szabo

---

### About these Resources

The resources listed above are but a small selection which was particularly
influential in my thinking. A sincere *thank you* to all the people who shared
their thoughts and insights, past and present. I have learned so much, and for
that, I will be eternally grateful.

If you have suggestions for content or improvements, feel free to open issues
or PRs on [GitHub][issues] or [reach out to me][contact].

{% include bibliography.md %}
